foret posto 780 — ( 57 )04 /0007 / 2003 — 18 REGISTERED NO . DL — ( N )04 /0007 /2003 — 18 


सत्यमेव जयते 


भारत का राजपत्र 
The Gazette of Fadia 


असाधारण 
EXTRAORDINARY 

T II – qus 2 
PART II — Section 2 

प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Hº 12 ] 

T Foruit, Hal , 376 3, 2018 / Pau 12 , 1940 ( 970 
No. 12 ] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY , AUGUST 3 , 2018 /SHRAVANA 12 , 1940 (SAKA ) 
= 

- 
इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation . 


LOK SABHA 


The following Bills were introduced in Lok Sabha on 3rd August , 2018 : — 


Bill No. 31 OF 2018 


THE CONSTITUTION ( AMENDMENT) BILL , 2018 


By 


SHRI ASADUDDIN OWAISI , M .P. 

A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. This Actmay be called Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

Short title . 
2. After article 371 -J of the Constitution , the following article shall be inserted , Insertion of 
namely : 

new Article 

371- K 
" 371- K . ( 1) The President may, by order made with respect to the State of Bihar, Special 
provide for special responsibility of theGovernor to establish a separate developmentcouncil provisions 

with respect 
for the Seemanchal region to be known as the Seemanchal Regional Developmental Council 

to State of 
(herein after referred to as the Council ) to exercise the powers conferred on and to perform Bihar. 
the functions assigned to it under this article . 

(2 ) The Council shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common 
seal, with the powers to acquire , hold and dispose ofboth movable and immovable property , 
to enter into and execute contracts , to sue or be sued , as well as any other power in connection 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


with or ancillary to the above and further to the objectives of the Council, including those 
specifically mentioned in this article . 

( 3) The office of the Council shall be at such place within the Seemanchal Region as 
the Councilmay think fit: 


Provided that the Council may establish such number of offices at such places, as it 
deems necessary to discharge its functions and fulfil its objectives . 
(4 ) The Council shall consist of — 

(a ) a Chairperson ; and 

(b ) not less than four members and maximum six members excluding the 
Chairperson , to be appointed by the Governor of Bihar and shall consist of — 

(i) not more than two members to be nominated by the President of 
India ; 

( ii ) at least two independentmembers having special knowledge of or 
professional experience in either one or more subjects of rural development, 
urban planning , irrigation and public works, public health , health management, 
engineering, conservation and environmental sciences, agricultural sciences, 
public administration and service delivery, finance, law , education , infrastructure 
development, and any other subject as may be deemed useful for the Council to 
perform its functions and fulfil its objectives under this article ; and 

(iii ) at least two members domiciled in the Seemanchal region . 
(5 ) Every member of the Council shall be a whole - timemember, and shallhold office for 
a term of five years from the date on which he enters office, or up to the age of sixty - five 
years, whichever is earlier. 

(6 ) The Governor shall before appointing any person as a Chairperson or member of 
the Council, reasonably verify that such person has no financial or other interest in the 
Council as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a Chairperson ormember, as the 
case may be. 


(7 ) The Council shall, — 


(a ) provide equitable opportunity for any person residing in the Seemanchal 
region to access education , health services and employment ; 

(b ) provide for the infrastructure necessary for accessing education , health 
services and employment in the Seemanchal region ; 

(c ) establish standards of education and healthcare services being provided in 
the Seemanchal region ; 

(d) ensure that adequate training is provided for employment of any person 
residing in the Seemanchal region ; 

(e ) provide for the basic care , including nutrition, shelter, clean environment, 
and proper sanitation , to any person residing in the Seemanchal region ; 

(f) ensure children below the age of fourteen are not employed in any kind of 
labour in the Seemanchal region ; 

(g ) ensure protection to , and make special provision for, women , children , 
economically backward classes, persons with physical and psycho- social disabilities, 
persons who were displaced due to environmental causes or developmental efforts or 
from trafficking or any other form of exploitation ; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


(h ) encourage opportunities for investment, entrepreneurship , research and 
innovation in the Seemanchal region ; 


(i) provide for equitable access to governance , access to justice and legal aid , 
and delivery of all public services to the people residing the Seemanchal region ; 


(i) provide for civic development, potable water and electricity in the Seemanchal 
region ; and 


(k ) provide for banking and financial services to any person residing in the 
Seemanchal region . 


(8) The Council shall prepare and cause to be published 


(a ) a Strategic Development Plan once in every three years which shall set out 
the development priorities of the Council for the next three years ; and 


Explanation. — The Strategic Development Plan shall include such research , 
analysis and proposed measures as are necessary for the execution of the objectives 
of the Council s . 


(b ) a Seemanchal Annual Development Report annually, consisting of the 
measures undertaken or to be undertaken by the Council including the manner of 
allocation of financial and human resources . 


( 9) The Council shall have the power to , call for information , inspect, recommend and 
monitor in relation to executing its objectives as specified in clause 8 , including 


(a ) conducting research , collecting data and analysing information ; 


(b ) monitoring the implementation of the Strategic Development Plan and the 
Seemanchal Annual Development Report; 

(c ) formulating, approving, financing and implementing any plans, programmes, 
projects and schemes for the Seemanchal region or any part thereof, including providing 
financial support through grants ; 

(d ) coordinating with any other public authority for inter- regional and intra 
regional development; 


( e ) raising awareness and undertaking advocacy measures for the promotion of 
practices that are beneficial for the overall wellbeing of the people residing in the 
Seemanchal region ; 


(f) consulting experts for executing the objectives of the Council ; 

(g ) making requisite rules, regulations, orders and bylaws as may be deemed 
necessary by the Council; and 


(h) all other acts as may be deemed necessary for executing the objectives of the 
Council 


( 10 ) For the purpose of this article there shall be constituted a Fund to be called as the 
Seemanchal Regional Developmental Council Fund to which shall be credited all monies 
realised , realisable or received respectively by or on behalf of the Council whilst carrying out 
its objectives and powers as conferred upon it by this article and be utilised by the Council 
for the payment of all sums, charges and costs necessary for carrying out the objectives and 
functions of the Council under this article . 


( 11) The Council shall, within one hundred and twenty days from the date of its 
constitution , prescribe regulations for carrying out the provisions of this article . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(12 ) The Council shallmake bye-laws for themanagement of the Seemanchal Regional 
Developmental Council Fund and for the procedure to be followed in respect of maintenance 
of accounts of Fund , auditing of Fund, payment ofmoney into the said Fund , withdrawal of 
moneys therefrom , the custody of moneys therein and any other matter incidental thereto or 
connected therewith . 


( 13) The President shall , in consultation with the Council , by order,made in relation to 
the State of Bihar, provide for 


(a ) reservation of a proportion of seats in school, colleges , technical education 
and vocational training institutions in the State of Bihar for students belonging to 
Seemanchal region by birth or by domicile ; 

(b ) identification of posts or classes of posts under the State Government and in 
any body or organisation under the control of the State Government of Bihar and 
reservation of a proportion of such posts for personsbelonging to Seemanchal region 
by birth or by domicile and for appointment thereto by direct recruitment or by 
promotion or in any other manner as may, be specified in the order. 

( 14 ) The Parliament, shall ,by law make such provision as are necessary to give effect 
to the purposes of this article ." . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


It has been recognised that the region of Seemanchal in Bihar ranks lower on all 
development indices than other parts of the State of Bihar. As per the Ministry of Statistics 
and Programme Implementation , not only is the per capita income of people of the State of 
Bihar the lowest in the nation at rupees three thousand one hundred and ninety nine , the per 
capita incomes in the major districts in Seemanchal region is far lower than that average as 
well (Purnea -rupees ten thousand and ninety nine , Kishanganj-rupees nine thousand nine 
hundred and twenty eight, Araria -rupees eight thousand seven hundred and seventy six , 
Katihar - rupees eleven thousand two hundred and seventy eight). In terms of the state 
literacy rate , as determined by the 2011 Census, the districts making up the Seemanchal Area 
(Purnia - 51.08 % , Katihar 52 .24 % , Araria - 53.53 % and Kishanganj - 55.46 % ) lag significantly 
behind the literacy rate of the State of Bihar (61.80 % ) , itself behind the national literacy rate 
(74 .04 % ). This situation of underdevelopment is seen across a number of indicators, as is 
seen from a baseline survey conducted by the Indian Council for Social Science Research in 
2008 that found that all four districts lag behind the national average in eight indicators of 
socio -economic development and amenities based on 2001 census data , as identified by the 
Ministry of Minority Affairs, namely , electricity connection , pucca housing, water closet 
latrines , literacy rate especially female liteeracy rate , and also additionally measured level of 
vaccination , and other health facilities . Therefore, special provisions are required to 
accommodate the needs of the Seemanchal region . 

The special provisions are required to establish an institutional framework for the 
identification of development needs of the said region , and ensuring capacity building and 
efficient allocation of resources in order to meet such development needs as well as enhance 
the socio - economic welfare of the persons belonging to the region . The need is also to 
promote livelihood opportunities for people from the region by providing for local cadres in 
service and reservation in educational and vocational training institutions by an amendment 
to the Constitution of India . 

It is accordingly proposed to insert a new Aarticle 371K in the Constitution to provide 
for special provisions for the region of Seemanchal in Bihar, which shall consist of the 
districts ofAraria , Purnea, Kishanganj, Supaul and Katihar. The article in the form of special 
provision seeks to provide for: 

(a ) establishment of a separate Development Council for the Seemanchal region ; 

(b ) identification of specific objectives to be undertaken by the Development 
Council in furtherance of the development of the Seemanchal region , including 
infrastructure and access to public services ; 

(c ) sufficient allocation of funds for development over the Seemanchal region , in 
accordance with the recommendations and suggested measure identified by the 
Development Council; 

(d ) reservation in public employment through the constitution of local cadres for 
domiciles of the region ; and 

(e ) reservation in education and vocational training institutions for domiciles of 
the region. 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives . 


ASADUDDIN OWAISI 


New DELHI; 
December 4, 2017. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 2 of the Bill provides for the constitution of Seemanchal Regional Development 
Council . It also provides for the constitution of the Seemanchal Regional Development 
Fund . The Bill , therefore, if enacted , would involved expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees twenty crore will be involed as recurring 
expenditure per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees one thousand crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 2 of the Bill empowers the Seemanchal Regional Development Council to make 
regulations for carrying out the purposes of the Bill. It also empowers the Council to make 
bye -lawsfor themanagement of the Fund , etc . Since the regulations and bye -lawswill relate 
to matters of detail only , the delegation oflegislative power is of a normal character . 


Sc.2] 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Bill No. 10 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


commencement. 


1 . (1) This Act may be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

Short title and 
( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 

2 . In article 84 of the Constitution , for clause (b ), the following clause shall be Amendment 
substituted , namely : 

of article 84 . 
" (b ) is, in the case of a seat in the Council of States , not less than twenty - five 
years of age and, in the case of a seat in the House of the People, not less than twenty 
years of age; and" . 

3. In article 173 of the Constitution , for clause (b ), the following clause shall be Amendment 
substituted , namely : 

of article 173 . 
“ (b ) is, in the case of a seat in the Legislative Assembly , not less than twenty 
years of age and , in the case of a seat in the Legislative Council , not less than 
twenty -two years of age ; and” . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


4 . After article 329 of the Constitution ,the following article shall be inserted , namely : 


Insertion of 
new article 
329 A . 


Right to 
contest and 
vote . 


“ 329A . (1 ) Save as otherwise provided in this Constitution , no prerequisite or standard 
practice or procedure shall be imposed or applied to , discriminatorily or arbitrarily, deny or 
abridge the rightofany citizen to contest or vote in any election held under this Constitution . 

(2 ) Nothing in this article shall be applicable to any reservation of seats or any provision 
made for special representation of certain classes under this Constitution . 

Explanation . — Any requirement for a minimum educational qualification for contesting 
an election shall be deemed to be prohibited under this article.” . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


In 1989 , the Sixty - First Amendment to the Constitution of India lowered the voting age 
from twenty -one years to eighteen years to the House of the People and Legislative Assemblies 
of the States . The reason was to include more number of adults and make the democratic 
processmore inclusive. Inclusive democracy in the true sense would mean notonly widening 
the voting net but also ensuring a more inclusive electoral contest. A healthy democracy 
requires that the pool of contestants reflects the diversity of the electorate . It has even been 
argued in a PIL that was filed in the Supreme Court that articles 84 and 173 violate the 
Fundamental Right of citizens to choose a profession . The Public Interest Litigation (PIL ) 
was rejected on the ground that lowering the age of contesting required an amendment to the 
Constitution , and the Parliament, not the Supreme Court, had the authority to do it. 

Parliamentary democracy is part of the basic structure of this Constitution . An essential 
attribute of parliamentary democracy is free and fair elections. The conduct of a free and fair 
election cannot be conducted when a major demographic group of citizenry is not eligible to 
contest in elections. India s largest age group is currently prevented from contesting elections , 
this despite the fact that young individuals constitute 53 .7 per cent. of the total population 
of India according to the 2011 census. In this light, it is essential that young citizens find a 
stake in parliamentary democracy and are able to articulate their aspirations and claims in the 
State Legislatures and the Parliament. 


Most democracies across the world have reduced the minimum age for contesting 
elections over the years to either eighteen years or twenty -one years. For example , the 
minimum age to contest elections in the United Kingdom (reduced from twenty - one in 2006 ), 
France , Germany, Australia is eighteen years. In Israel and Indonesia it is twenty - one years . 
In Iran persons as young as twenty -one can even become the President of the country . 
Therefore, while young individuals across the world are enriching their democratic traditions, 
barring our youth from contesting in elections is regressive and exclusionary.Moreover, in 
order to strengthen the inclusiveness of our electoral democracy it is necessary that a 
constitutional protection against discriminatory practices in elections be incorporated . 

It has been observed that, increasingly , legislatures have made laws to incorporate 
school education as a prerequisite to contesting local elections. Similarly , it has been noted 
that under-trial citizens of this country are prevented from exercising their right to vote . This 
despite the fact, that they are treated as innocent in the eyes of law . 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the Constitution with a view to prevent the dilution 
of the constitutional principles of equal citizenship and universal suffrage and to bar any 
discriminatory or arbitrary treatment in abridging the right to vote or contest in elections . 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. 


ASADUDDIN OWAISI 


NEW DELHI; 
January 3 , 2018 . 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 9 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the prevention of human deaths caused by heat stroke during summer 

and chilling cold during winter seasons by declaring heatwave and coldwave as 
national calamity and for making provisions for advance preparedness to face 

these natural calamities immediately on predictions of meteorological 
department making provision for providing woollens, setting up night 

shelters, community bonfires etc. during winters and for drinking 
water, ORS packets, Mango panna , cooling space and shades 
at conspicuous places, free ration and other needs for the 
poor homeless workers and daily wage earners during 
summer and for payment of compensation to the kins 
of those losing lives in heat or cold wave, as the 

case may be, by the Central and the State 
Governments and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent, and 
commencement. 


extent, and 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Prevention of Deaths due to Heat and Cold Waves 
Act, 2015 . 


Act,20 ;(1) This Act may 


( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


Definitions. 


( 3) It shall come into force at once. 
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases the Central Government; 


(b ) “ cold wave ” means the period of abnormally low temperature less than the 
normal temperature that occurs in a place; 

(c ) “ heat wave” means the period of abnormally high temperatures, more than 
the normal maximum temperature that occurs in a place ; and 

(d) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3 . The natural calamities of severe heat wave or cold wave in which people lose their Declaration of 
lives are hereby declared respectively to be national calamities and shall be dealt with by the heat wave and 
appropriate Government accordingly . 

cold wave as 
national 

calamity . 
4 . ( 1) The Central and regional Meteorological Centres shall inform the appropriate Meteorological 
Government about forecast detailing the likely occurance of severe heat or cold wave , as the Centres to 

inform the 
case may be , in their areas, in such manner as may be prescribed . 

appropriate 
(2 ) On receipt of the forecast from the Meteorological Centre under sub- section (1 ), 

Government 

about 
the appropriate Government shall alert its Ministries ordepartments dealing with agriculture, 

prediction of 
drinking water, social justice , food and others as it may deem necessary for their necessary heat or cold 
arrangements and action plans to meet the challenges likely to be caused by natural calamity wave. 
and disaster . 


5 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall set up at conspicuous places within its Setting up of 
territorial jurisdiction : 

night shelters, 

cooling spaces 
( a ) night shelters for the homeless people with such amenities and facilities for and shades etc . 
the summer, rainy and winter seasons as may be prescribed . 

by appropriate 

Government. 
(b ) cooling spaces, shades in the fields for the agricultural workers, near the 
site of construction for construction workers , near roads and highways for the 
workers engaged in construction of roads or highways and at such other places as 
the appropriate Governmentmay deem necessary for the daily wage earners , rickshaw 
or cart pullers , porters, roadside mechanics and other such workers with facility 
of drinking water, ORS packets and mango panna in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 

(2) It shall be the duty of the Department of Health of the appropriate Government to 
announce and implement guidelines on dealing with cold wave or heat wave patients, as the 
case may be , in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force , 
agricultural workers, construction workers and workers who work in the open including 
porters, cart pullers , rickshaw pullers and other such workers shall be allowed rest between 
12 PM and 3 PM during summer season in such manner as may be prescribed . 

6 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall prepare within six months of the commencement Long term 
of this Act, a long term action plan in order to increase preparedness, information sharing plan to 
and response coordination between various Ministries and departments of the Government 

prevent deaths 

due to cold 
to reduce the health impacts particularly deaths due to extreme heat or cold , as the case may and he 
be , on vulnerable population with in its territorial jurisdiction . 

(2 ) While implementing the long term action plan prepared under sub -section (1) the 
appropriate Government shall make use of short message service ( SMS) e-mail , radio , 
television , mobile apps and services of village Panchayats to alert the people about extreme 
heat and cold conditions , as the case may be . 


waves . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Penalty . 


7 . Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 5 of this Act shall 
be punished with imprisonment for a term of one month and also with fine which may extend 
upto two lakh rupees. 


Compensation 
to the kin of 
the victims. 


8 . The appropriate Government shall pay to the nearest kin of the victim who die 
because of heat wave or cold wave , as the case may be a compensation of minimum three 
lakhs rupees in such manner as may be prescribed . 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds. 


9. The Central Government shall after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in 
this behalf , provide adequate funds for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


Act to have 
overriding 
effect. 


10 . The provisions of this Act and of any rules made thereunder shall have effect 
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time 
being in force or in any other instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this 
Act . 


Act to 
supplement 
other laws. 


11 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
law for the time being applicable to the subject matter of this Act. 


Power to 
make rules . 


12 . ( 1) The Central Government may, by notification in the official Gazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

( 2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect , as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Every year our nation faces extremeweather conditions in the form of heatwave, rains 
and coldwave in which many people, particularly the poorer ones lose their lives. For instance 
in the heatwave of this year 2015 death toll crossed the 2000 mark in the month ofMay itself . 
This has become the fifth deadliest ever heatwave in the world and the second deadliest in 
India according to an International database of disasters. The deadliest heatwave on record 
in India was in the year 1998 which killed 2541 people . The most lethal heatwave in the globe 
was the one that crippled Europe in the year 2003 killing 71, 310 people . In the list of top ten 
deadliest disasters heatwaves figure four times — 1998 , 2002, 2003 and 2015 in India . 
Unsurprisingly , six of the top ten heatwaves in terms of deaths have occurred in the 21st 
Century which has also recorded eight of the ten warmest years ever since records of global 
temperatures have started being kept. The year 2014 was tied as the warmest year on record 
with the year 1998 whereas the first quarter of 2015 was declared warmest on record . 
Unfortunately the poor who are undernourished and have no option but to work in the 
scorching heat and chilling cold to get two square meals are vulnerable to these extreme 
weather conditions and lose their lives. The death tolls from heatwaves are very difficult to 
estimate since excess heat is typically not listed as the primary cause of death in cases where 
the victim has a pre - existing condition such as heart or lung disease. This means that in most 
of the cases especially in India the actualdeath toll will be much higher in all the listed events 
including the spell of heatwave of 2015 . 

It is only after Prime Minister s appeal to take precautions against the heatwave that 
killed nearly 2300 people in the month of May, 2015 across the country particularly in the 
States of Telangana , Andhra Pradesh , Odisha and other parts of the country that the National 
Disaster Management Authority (NDMA ) has started working on it. There is need to declare 
heatwave and coldwave as national calamity . Immediate as well as long term action plans to 
increase preparedness , information sharing through variousmeans, increasing communication 
on prevention methods, access to potable drinking water and cooling space etc . are required 
to prevent deaths due to heatwave and availability to rain baseraas , woollens , medicines and 
food for the poorest of the poor may prevent deaths during chilling winters. This is the 
minimum which has to be done for the poorest of the poor in a welfare State like ours . 

Hence this Bill. 


RAMESH POKHRIYAL NISHANK 


NEW DELHI; 
January 2 , 2018 . 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 5 of the Bill provides for various welfare measures such as setting up of night 
shelters, cooling spaces and shades etc . by the Government. Clause 8 provides for 
compensation to the kin of the victims. Clause 9 makes it mandatory for the CentralGovernment 
to provide adequate funds for carrying out the purposes of the Bill. The Bill , if enacted , will 
involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees 
ten thousand crore will involve as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees twenty five thousand crore will also 
be involved for creating assets throughout the country. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 21 of Bill empowers of the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of details only, the delegation 
oflegislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


15 


Bill No . 13 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for welfare of women by providing fund and creating employment 

opportunities and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


Definitions. 


1. (1) This Act may be called the Women Welfare Act, 2018 . 
(2) It extends to the whole of India . 
( 3) It shall come into force at once. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State , in all other cases the Central Government; 

(6 ) " Fund" means Women Welfare Fund set up under Section 3 ; 
(c) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Women 

3. (1) The Central Government shall by notification in the Official Gazette set up a 
Welfare Fund. Fund to be known as Women Welfare Fund for the purpose of taking welfare measures for 

Women . 


( 2) The Fund shall consist of contributions by Central Government and State 
Governments in such ratio as may be prescribed and donations received from organisations 
and individuals . 

4 . The CentralGovernment shall reserve at least thirty-three per cent of jobs forwomen 
in all Central Government Services and organisations under its control. 


Reservation 
of jobs in 
Central 
Government. 


Appropriate 
Government 
to undertake 
Welfare 
Measures for 
Women . 


5 . The appropriate Government shall, — 

(i) set up such number of women employment centres in every district as may be 
prescribed to provide assistance to women for employment or self employment; 


( ii ) reserve land or housing sites for women ; 

( iii ) provide free health care facilities and maternity benefits upto first two 
children ; 

( iv) set up women hostels wherein all facilities shall be provided free of cost; 

(v ) pay sustenance allowance or old age pension to women who are destitute or 
widows and having no source of regular income; 


(vi) provide free training to women for taking up employmentor self employment; 
(vii ) provide scholarships to girl students ; and 

(viii) reserve at least thirty per cent of seats for women in all educational 
institutions including higher professional and technical institutions. 

6 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in 
this behalf , provide funds to the State Governments for setting up of special courts for 
women in every district. 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds for 
special Courts. 


Central 
Government 
to ensure loan 
to women . 


7 . The CentralGovernment shall ensure that every commercialbank , including private 
and foreign banks provide loans to women at the rate of five per cent simple interest for 
setting up self employment units. 


Power to 
make rules. 


8 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions, aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not bemade , the rule shall thereafter have effectonly in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Women constitute fifty per cent of the population in the country. Though seventy 
years have passed since independence , yet there has been no improvement in the condition 
of women . Several efforts taken by the Government have yielded someresults, yet much has 
to bedone to improve their lot. The women do not have ample access to schools or employment 
opportunities. Only a concrete reservation system in educational institutions or Government 
jobs or special employment or self employment opportunities will help them . Crimes against 
women are increasing and it takes very long for disposal of cases . Special courts can only 
help quick disposal of cases . 

There is no social security for women in distress. The Government should make some 
provision for them . Therefore , it is proposed to bring a comprehensive legislation for women 
welfare . 

Hence this Bill. 


RAMESH POKHRIYAL ‘NISHANK 


NEW DELHI; 
January 2, 2018 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for setting up of Women Welfare Fund consisting of 
contributions by Central Government and other sources. Clause 5 provides for setting up of 
employment centres , reservation of land or housing sites and providing hostels, pensions, 
scholarships, etc . to women by the appropriate Government. Clause 6 of the Bill contains the 
provision for Central Government to provide funds to State Governments for setting up of 
special courts in every district. The Bill , therefore by the Central Government, if enacted 
would involve expenditure from the consolidated Fund of India. It is likely to involve a 
recurring expenditure of about rupees ten thousand crore per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees two thousand crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


19 


Bill No. 6 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for proper planning and co -ordinated development of Self -financing 

professional educational institutions throughout the country by regulating the 
admission of students and prescribing fee structure in such Self-financing 
Institution including prevention of commercialisation of professional 
education and prohibition of capitation fees and 

for matters connected therewith 

or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

WHEREAS it is necessary to provide for proper planning and co - ordinated 
development of Self- financing Institutions throughout the country by prohibiting 
collection of capitation fees , preventing commercialisation of professional education , 
regulating admission procedure and prescribing fees structure and other matters 
incidental thereto ; 


CHAPTERI 


PRELIMINARY 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Self - financing Professional Educational Institutions Short title , 
(Control and Regulation ) Act, 2018 . 

extent, 

commencement 
( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

and 
application . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions . 


( 3) It shall come into force at once. 
(4 ) It shall apply to all Self-financing Institutions in the country. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) " advisory body " means a body consisting of parents and teacher s 
representatives, student representatives, elected Member of Parliament and Member 
of Legislative Assembly from the area , President of District Panchayat and two 
representatives of the Management; 

(b ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(c ) " capitation fee" means any amountby whatever namecalled whether in cash 
or in kind , paid or collected or received directly or indirectly by the Management or 
Governing Body or any member of the Management or Governing Body or staff of any 
Self-financing Professional Educational Institution , including his / their relative or any 
person associated in any manner whatsoever in themanagement of the said institution , 
in addition to the fees prescribed or determined under section 5 from or in relation to 
any candidates or student in consideration of his admission or continuance of any 
course of study or his promotion to a higher class in such college or institution under 
such management; 

(d ) " common entrance examination " means the entrance examination conducted 
either by the Government or any other agency wholly controlled by the Government 
for admission to the professional educational institution ; 

(e ) " free seat " means any seat in a Self - financing Professional Educational 
Institution against which the fee collected shall be the same as that prevailing for the 
corresponding course in Government colleges ; 

(1) "management" means any trust, Co - operative society, Company registered 
under the Companies Act, 2013 and such other similar association of persons, under 
whose control or administration any Self-financing Professional Educational Institution 
is functioning ; 

(8 ) minority means a community belonging to a religious minority as may be 
notified by the Government; 

(h ) minority institutions means any private professional educational institute 
established and administered by minority and being conferred minority statusby the 
National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions; 

(i) " parents representative " means, a legal guardian of any student elected by 
the parent-teachers association of the respective college ; 

(1) " payment seat" means any seat against which themanagement is permitted to 
collect the fees prescribed under section 5 (1 )(b ); 

(k) " prescribed" means prescribed by this Act or rule made under the Act; and 

(1) " Self - financing Professional Educational Institution " includes any College , 
University, Deemed University , institution established , administrated or maintained 
by any trust, Co -operative Society , Company registered under the Companies 
Act, 2013 and such other similar association of persons, affiliated to or recognized by 
a University or Government Agency and not receiving any financial assistance from 
Government and conducting course in any of the disciplines like Engineering and 
Technology,Medicine , Dentistry , Pharmacy, Ayurveda, Homoeopathy, Siddha , Nursing 
and Law etc .; 

(m ) " statutory auditors" means a group of auditors appointed by the Government 
to audit Self- financing Institution collectively as item of not less than three auditors ; 
and 


18 of 2013. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


(n ) " student representative" means a student elected by the students of a Self 
Financing Professional Educational Institution through direct election . 


CHAPTER II 


ADMISSION AND FEES IN SELF FINANCING PROFESSIONAL EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION 

3 . The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to Self-financing Professional Applicability. 
Educational Institution established or administered by the minority communities. 

4 . ( 1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or in Procedure for 
any judgment, decree or order of any court or any other authority or in any agreement, the admission . 
admission of students to a Self Financing Professional Educational Institution shall be made 
only on the basis of themerit list prepared through a common entrance examination . 

( 2) In every Self- financing Professional Educational Institution seventy five per cent. 
of the total seats shall be free seats and the remaining twenty five per cent. shall be payment 
seats . 

( 3 ) Every free seat shall be filled up on the basis of the rank in the common entrance 
examination following the principles of reservation as determined by the Government from 
time to time, to ensure free ships and scholarship to the candidates hailing from backward 
areas and weaker section of society . 

( 4 ) Every payment seat shall be filled up from the list prepared on the basis of common 
entrance examination from among those students , who indicate their preference for being 
allotted such seats : 

Provided that the management shall ensure inter- se merit among the students opting 
for a particular institution , and lower rank holders will be eligible for the seat, only if the 
higher rank holder relinquishes his or her claim through a written communication . 

(5 ) Educational qualification for admission in the Self -financing Professional 
Educational Institution shall be such as may be notified by the Government, from time to 
time. 

5 . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or in Fee Structure. 
any judgment, decree or order of any court or any other authority or any committee or any 
agreement, 

( a ) the fees charged by any Self-financing institution for free seats shall be the 
same as that charged by Government professional institutions for the corresponding 
course . 


(b ) the fees charged for payment seats shall be prescribed by the Government on 
the basis of the recommendation of an expert Committee constituted in this behalf by 
the Government. 

(2 ) The fee structure determined by the Expert Committee shall be revised every five 
years . 

6 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall constitute an Expert Committee to determine Constitution 
the fee structure for payment seats in the Self -financing Professional Educational Institutions. of Expert 

Committee . 
(2 ) the Expert Committee shall consist of: 

(i) a retired Judge of the Supreme Court or the High Court, who shall be the 
Chairman of the Committee ; 

( ii ) two experts in the relevant field of professional education ; 
( iii ) two representatives of the appropriate Government; 

( iv ) three representatives of the management of the Self-financing Professional 
Educational Institutions; and 

(v ) two experts in the field of accountancy, cost audit or management. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


( 3) The salaries and allowances payable to , and the other terms and conditions of 
service of the Chairperson and members of the Expert Committee, shall be such , as may be 

prescribed by the Government. 
Auditing 

7 . The statutory auditors shall audit all the Self- financing Professional Educational 

Institutes at least once in every year and submit their report to the Government. 
Advisory Body. 8 . (1) Every Self- financing Professional Educational Institution shall establish an 

advisory body to advise on framing policies for ensuring quality of education . 

(2 ) The advisory body shall meet at least once in three months and shall have powers 

to verify any record . 
The powers 

9. If any management of a Self - financing Professional Educational Institute contravenes 
of the any of the provisions of this Act,the Governmentmay temporarily take over the management 
Government 

of the Self Financing Professional Educational Institution and administer the same in larger 
to take over. 

public interest: 
Provided that such take over and administration shall not exceed period of five years. 

CHAPTER III 


Applicability . 


Procedure for 
Admission . 


SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO MINORITY SELF FINANCING PROFESSIONAL 

EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION 
10 . The provisions of this Chapter shall apply only to Self- financing Professional 
Educational institution established or administered by the minority communities. 

11. ( 1) The admission of students to a Self- financing Professional Educational institution 
shall be made only on the basis ofmerit. 

(2 ) In every Self-financing Professional Educational Institution sixty per cent. of the 
total seats shall be free seats and the remaining forty per cent. shall be payment seats . 

( 3) Every free seat shall be filled up on the basis of the rank obtained in the Common 
Entrance Examination following the principles of reservation as determined by theGovernment 
from time to time; and also reserve freeships and scholarships to the candidates hailing from 
backward areas and weaker sections . 

(4) Every payment seat shall be filled up from the merit list prepared on the basis of 
Common Entrance Examination from among those students who indicate their preference for 
being allotted such seats : 

Provided that a fixed percentage of the payment seats may be reserved for the community 
which establishes or administers the institution as may be prescribed. 

12. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or in 
any judgment, decree or order of any court or any other authority or any committee or any 


Fee Structure 
in Minority 


Self Financing agreement, — 


Professional 
Education 
Institution . 


(a ) the fees charged by any minority Self - financing Professional Educational 
Institution for free seats shall be the same as that charged by Government professional 
Educational Institution for the corresponding course. 

(b ) the fees charged for payment seats shall be prescribed by the management 
on the basis of recommendation of an Expert Committee constituted in this behalf by 
the Government. 

(2) The fee structure determined by the Expert Committee shall be revised every five 
years . 

13. (1) The appropriate Government shall constitute an Expert Committee to recommend 
the fee structure for payment seats in the minority Self-financing Professional Educational 
Institutions. 


Expert 
Committee . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


(2 ) The Expert Committee shall consist of 

(i) a retired Judge of the Surpeme Court or the High Court who shall be the 
Chairperson of the Committee ; 


(ii ) two experts in the relevant field of professional education , of which one may 
be the nominee of themanagement; 


( iii) one representative of the appropriate Government; 


( iv ) three representatives of the management; and 


(v ) two experts in the field of Accountancy, Cost Audit or Management. 


( 3 ) The salaries and allowances payable to , and the other terms and conditions of 
service of the Chairperson and members of the Expert Committee , shall be such , as may be 
prescribed , by the Government. 


CHAPTER IV 


OFFENCES AND PENALTIES 


Prohibition of 
capitation fee. 


14 .No capitation fee shallbe collected by or on behalf of any Self - financing Professional 
Educational Institution or by any person who is incharge of the affairs of the institution from 
any candidate in considering his admission to or continuance in any course of study under 
the management. 


Collection of 


15 . No Self -financing Professional Educational Institution shall collect fees for more 
than the current semester at a time. 


Fees. 


Penalties . 


16 . ( 1) Whoever contravenes the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder 
shall , be punishable with simple imprisonment upto six month or with fine which may extend 
upto fifty lakh rupees but not less than twenty lakh rupees or with both . 

(2) A penalty under this sections may be imposed without prejudice to the penalty 
specified in any other law for the time being in force . 


17 . No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act except 
upon a written complaint, made by the person or student from whom the capitation fee is 
alleged to have been demanded . 


Cognizance of 
offence. 


18 . No suit prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any member of the Protection of 
advisory body or any officer of the Government for anything which is in good faith done or action taken 

in good faith . 
intended to be done under this Act. 


19 . The Central Government may, in public interest, exempt any Self-financing Exemption to 
Professional Educational Institution from the applicability of this Act. 

Self- financing 
Professional 
Educational 
Institutions . 


20 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to , and not in derogation of, 
any other law for the time being in force, and nothing contained herein shall exempt any 
Self - financing institution from any proceeding which might, apart from this Act, have been 
instituted against it . 


Act to be in 
addition to 
any other 
Law . 


CHAPTER V 


MISCELLANEOUS 


21 . ( 1) The appropriate Governmentmayby notification in the Gazette ,make rules not Power to 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of make rules. 
this Act within three months from the date of commencement of the Act . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing rule making power,such rules 
may provide for all or any of the following matters viz.: 

(i) fixation of fee structure ; 

(ii) procedure to be followed by the expert committee for determining and fixing 
fees ; 

(iii ) the matters to be taken into account while fixing fees; 

(iv ) ensuring that no profiteering is carried on and to reserve freeships and 
scholarships to the candidates hailing from backward areas and weaker sections of the 
society. 

( 3) Every rule made under his Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before 
each House of the State Legislature while it is in session for a total period of thirty days 
which may be comprised in one session or in two ormore successive sessions and if, before 
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or successive sessions aforesaid 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the case may be ; so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such rule. 

(4 ) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made , before the State Legislature. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Article 39 of the Constitution of India mandates that the State shall direct its policy 
towards securing the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are 
so distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic 
system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the 
common detriment. The opening up of the professional education sector and establishment 
of Self-financing Institutions have resulted in the need for a comprehensive law regulating 
various aspects of the establishment and conduct of such institutions including right to 
establish and administer educational institutions of their choice by minorities in the light of 
principles enunciated and directions issued by the Supreme Court of India in various decisions 
especially in the areas of admission of students and the fee -structure etc . The Supreme Court 
had issued the directions invoking its plenary powers under article 142 which are to remain 
in force till appropriate legislation is enacted by the Parliament. The Bill seeks to achieve the 
object of regulating the admission of students and fees structure etc . of Self -financing 
Professional Education Institutions, in the light of the principles enshrined in the Constitution 
of India especially , article 39 thereof. 

Hence this Bill. 


RAMESH POKHRIYAL NISHANK 


NEW DELHI; 
January 2 , 2018 . 


26 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 6 of the Bill provides for the constitution of an Expert Committee by the Central 
and State Governments to determine and fix fee structure in the Self - financing Professional 
Institutions. Clause 13 provides for constitution ofan Expert Committee to determine and fix 
fee structure in the Self - financing Professional Educational Institutions with reference to the 
minority -run educational institutions. The Bill, therefore, if enacted would involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . The recurring and non - recurring expenditure on this 
count cannot be estimated at this stage , but has to be worked out at later stage by the 
appropriate authority while implementing the provisions of the Act. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 21 of Bill empowers to the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Bill No. 34 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for compulsory furnishing of Bills for goods sold and services provided 

by the suppliers for goods or services and for matters connected therewith . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows : 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Compulsory Furnishing of Bills for Goods and Short title , 
Services Act, 2018 . 


extent and 


commencement. 


( 2) It extends to the whole of India . 


( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernment may,by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint. 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , "prescribed " means prescribed by Definitions. 
rules made under this Act. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


3 . It shall be mandatory for every supplier of goods and services to furnish to the 
person purchasing goods or availing services a bill indicating separately the cost of goods 
purchased or charges paid for availing services, various taxes and service charges , if any . 


Compulsory 
issue of bills for 
supply of goods 
or service by 
suppliers of 
goods or 
services 
provider to 
purchaser of 
goods or 
service . 


Maintaining 
of books 
containing 
printed books 
by suppliers 
of goods or 
service 
provider. 


4 . ( 1) Every supplier of goods or services shall maintain a book containing bills in 
printed , electronic or such other format, as may be prescribed . 

(2) Every bill furnished to person purchasing goods or availing service shall contain 
the following information 

(i) serialno .; 
(ii) name, address and registration number of the supplier of goods or services ; 
( iii) name and address of the receiver of goods or services ; 
( iv ) amount of taxes payable (each tax has to be given separately); 
(v) description and cost of goods sold or services provided ; and 

( vi) such other information , as may prescribed . 
5 . (1) There shall be constituted an Authority for registration of supplier of goods or 
services . 

(2 ) the Authority shall consist of a Chairperson and such number of other members as 
may be prescribed . 

(3 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and terms and conditions of services of the 
office of Chairperson and members shall be such as may be prescribed . 

(4 ) The Authority shall have its headquarters at Delhi and an office in each district. 

(5) The Authority shall have such number of Officers and staff as it may require for 
efficient discharge of its functions. 

(6 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and terms and conditions of services of the 
Officers and staff of the Authority shall be such as may be prescribed . 


Constitution 
of the 
Authority for 
registration of 
suppliers and 
service 
providers . 


Act shall not 

6 . The provisions of this Act shall not apply to street vendors , rickshaw pullers , 
apply to street roadside mechanics and such other persons as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
vendors , 

in the OfficialGazette, exempt. 
rickshaw 
pullers , 
roadside 
mechanics etc . 


Penalty . 


7 . Any person who violates the provisions of this Act shall be punished with 
imprisonment for a term which may extend up to six months or with fine which may extend 
upto rupees one lakh or with both . 


Power to 
make rules. 


8 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay , by notification in the Official Gazette , make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of the Act. 

( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act by the CentralGovernment shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total 
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive 
sessions , and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only 
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


With the enactment of the Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 , almost all transactions 
of supply of goods or services have come within the ambit of indirect taxation . It has 
been observed that whenever a product is sold or a service is provided no invoice or 
bill or receipt is issued for selling the goods or offering the services by the seller or 
service provider. In practice, no record of selling a product or providing service is 
maintained by persons who offer such services. Even buyers or persons availing these 
services for a price do not insist on any invoice , bill, receipt and as a result they may 
get substandard services and also do not have any mechanism to redress their 
grievances. Also , in the absence of any record indicating how much earning was made 
by the supplier of goods or services like the doctors, C . A ., chemists, transporters, etc., 
it becomes difficult to access their income and the extent of tax evaded . The Bill, 
therefore, seeks to — 


(i) make it compulsory to furnish invoice, bill or receipt by seller or service 
provider for supply of goods or providing of service to the purchaser of goods 
and services ; 


( ii ) make it compulsory for every supplier of goods or services to maintain 
record of bills issued ; 


(iii) constitute an authority for registration of goods and service providers ; 


and 


(iv ) provide for penalty for violation of the provisions of the Act. 


Hence this Bill . 


RAMESH POKHRIYAL NISHANK 


NEW DELHI; 
January 24 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 5 of the Bill provides for the constitution of an authority for registration of 
suppliers of goods and services. The Bill, therefore, if enacted , would involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure 
of rupees one hundred crore would be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non -recurring expenditure of rupees two hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying 
out the provisions of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the 
delegation of legislative power is of a normal character. 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 28 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the constitution of a Sustainable Tourism Interventions Council 
for establishment of tourism as an organized sector in India, for job - creation , 
higher foreign exchange reserve and greater cultural intermingling 

and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 


WHEREAS the United Nations World Tourism Organization in its Bali Declaration on 
Tourism recognizes tourism as a major contributor to world economy and one that may 
enhance quality of human relationships in September 1996 . 


AND WHEREAS the Seoul Declaration on Peace and Tourism adopted on the September, 
2001 at Seoul recognizes tourism as a means to promote world peace . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1. (1) This Act may be called the National Tourism (Sustainable Development and 
Promotion ) Act, 2018 . 

( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


Definitions. 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) "Agency " refers to the Skill Enhancement Certification Agency constituted 
under section 7 ; 

(b ) " Chairperson " refers to the Chairperson of the Sustainable Tourism 
Interventions Council established under section 3; 

(c ) " Council" means the Sustainable Tourism Interventions Council established 
section 3; 

(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 


( e ) " States " means the State Governments referred to in under article 1 of the 
Constitution of India ; and 


(f) " Task Force " means the Marketing Task Force constituted under section 9 . 


Establishment 


of 


nable 


3 . (1 ) The Central Government shall, within sixty days of the commencement of this 
Act, by notification in the Official Gazette , establish a Council to be known as the Sustainable 
Tourism Interventions Council for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


Tourism 
Interventions 
Council. 


(2 ) The Council shall consist of, — 

(a) the Union Tourism Minister , ex -officio, Chairperson ; 

(b ) the Union Ministers of Environment, Forests and Climate Change , Finance , 
Housing and Urban Affairs and External Affairs — Members ; 

(C ) the State Tourism Ministers — Members; 


( d ) the Secretary to Union Tourism Ministry — Member; 
(e ) the Secretaries to State Tourism Ministries — Member ; 

(1) representatives from Hotel Associations, Travel Agent s Associations, 
Adventure Sports Operator s Association and other interested groups of tourism 
industry ; and 

(g ) three other persons from amongst the persons , having outstanding 
contribution or expertise in the field of development and promotion of tourism industry 

and having experience of working in the tourism trade for at least ten years. 
to be nominated by the CentralGovernment,by notification in the Official Gazette , in such 
manner as may be prescribed . 

( 3) The term of the members of the Council referred to under clauses (f) and (g ) of 
sub - section (2 ) shall be for four years from the date of election or nomination or attainment 
of the age of seventy years or whichever is earlier and shall not be eligible for the re-election 
or re -nomination . 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
members referred to under clauses (f) and ( g ) of sub -section ( 2 ) shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 


(5 ) The Council shall meet at least once in a year to decide the annual agenda . 


Employees of 
the Council. 


4 . (1 ) The Central Government shall depute to the service of the Council such of its 
employees from the Tourism Department or from any other Department or may employ any 
person on contractual basis as it considers necessary for carrying out the purposes of this 
Act . 


(2 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
deputed and contractual employees shall be such as may be prescribed . 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Functions of 
the Council. 


5 . The Council shall ,— 


(a ) make recommendations to the Union and the States on important issues 
related to tourism including tax - subsidies , new destinations , international promotions 
and employment; 


(b ) create annual State -specific Action Plans on issues mentioned under 
clause (a ); 


( c) create and discover new tourist destinations ; 


(d ) except for adventure tourism destinations, connect through adequate road 
connectivity and regulated transport infrastructure ; 


(e ) provide health centres intermittently to destinations of trekking and hiking ; 


(f) recognize all buildings older than one hundred and fifty years as vintage 
building; 


(8 ) constitute a Heritage Fund both at the Central and State level , through 
appropriate financial tools, which shall be used to acquire vintage buildings as 
recognized under clause (i) under their jurisdictions ; 


(h ) undertake ease -of-tourism initiative using the Tourism Satellite Account 
constituted under section 6 to release biennial rankings on the ability of the State 
Government to attract tourists, domestic and foreign ; 


(i) take cognizance of the state security in each State for tourists based on how 
friendly the State police is it to the tourists; 


(i) establish a Standard Operating Procedure for each State for sensitizing the 
people of the States for friendly reception of all kinds of tourists and for helping them 
in understanding the culture of the State ; 


(k ) strive to reduce the consumption of energy - intensive and water- intensive 
tourism industry through certification to promote sustainable tourism infrastructure; 
and 


(1) constitute a sub -council consisting of representatives of CentralGovernment 
and State Governments to grant Energy Conservation Certificate to the energy -intensive 
and water- intensive tourism industry. 


Constitution 
of Tourism 
Satellite 
Accounts . 


6 . (1 ) The Central Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute 
a Tourism Satellite Account for the economic measurement of tourism in the country . 


( 2 ) The Tourism Satellite Account shall include, — 


(a ) harmonization and reconciliation of tourism statistics from an economic 
perspective ; 


(b ) tourism economic data that is comparable with other economic statistics ; 


and 


(c ) inbound domestic tourism and outbound tourism expenditure including 
internal tourism expenditure, production accounts of tourism industries, the Gross 
Value Added (GVA ) and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) attributable to tourism , 
employment, investment,Government consumption and non -monetary indicators . 

7. (1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the OfficialGazette , constitute 
an Agency to be known as the Skill Enhancement Certification Agency for carrying out the 


Constitution 
of Skill 
Enhancement 
Certification 
Agency . 


purposes of this Act. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


( 2) The Agency shall, - 

( a ) establish and recognize skill development institutions which provide courses 
in any such activity which aid in tourism ; and 

(b ) provide to every student who successfully complete courses in tourism 
guides, languages , cookery and driving a certificate for acquiring respective skills. 

8 . (1 ) The Central Government shall, in consultation with the Council, choose five Target Five 
States every two years , from the five regions of the country, namely, North , South , West, States. 
East and North -East, to form a group to be known as the Target Five States for development 
and promotion of tourism in those States . 

(2) The Central Government shall , in consultation with the Council , for the 
purposes of development and promotion of tourism in Target Five States chosen under 
sub - section (1 ), — 

(a) allot a fixed percentage of budget of Target Five States for tourism in those 
States ; 

(b ) grant tax -holiday for a stipulated period of time to any project by a private 
party that may increase the number of tourists and also the stay of tourists in the 
Target Five States; 

( c) develop tourism circuits viz , spiritual, adventure and natural; 

(d ) develop nodes in tourism circuits keeping in view the global standards in 
cleanliness , water and energy efficiency, crowd management, security, policing and 
hospitality ; 

(e ) renovate historical sites to maintain and preserve the monuments from the 
vagaries of nature and man -made elements like pollution ; 

(f) establish at least onemuseum to be developed and maintained by a corporate 
entity or any other organization ; 

(g ) recognize annual festivals in the Target Five States , ranging from tribal to 
more modern festivals ; and 

(h ) train the festival conductors with event management training, or give them 
the necessary professional assistance. 

9 . (1) The Central Government shall, in consultation with the Council, constitute a Constitution 
Task Force to be known as the Marketing Task Force for marketing and campaigning of the of Marketing 

Task Force . 
tourism in the country . 
(2 ) The Task Force shall consist of, — 

(a ) a Chief Public Relations Officer having compulsory training in marketing , 
even if recruited from All India Civil Services; and 

(b ) representatives from themarketing and personal relations industry, 
to be appointed by the CentralGovernment in such manner as may be prescribed . 
(3) The Task Force shall, — 

(a) strive to develop positive image of tourism in India and also in other Countries ; 

(b )make tailor-made ad campaigns and other marketingmodes to promote tourism 
in the Target Five States; 

(c ) report negative experiences of tourists in a particular place as collated through 
analytics to the local administration for their immediate redressal; and 

(d ) showcase the trouble -shooting and hassle -free tourism experiences in the 
place . 


36 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Formulation 
of schemes 
and policies to 
promote and 
develop 

iment 
friendly 
tourism . 


10 . (1) The Council shall, by notification in the Official Gazette , formulate adequate 
schemes and policies to incentivise the organizations and buildings involved in tourism 
industry to promote and develop environment friendly tourism in the country . 

(2 ) Every organizations and buildings involved in tourism industry in order to avail the 
incentives of the schemes and policies formulated under sub -section (1) shall ensure that 

( a ) purchasing policy favours environmentally responsible and eco - friendly 
products for building materials , capital goods, food and consumables ; 

(b ) purchase of disposable and consumer goods ismeasured , and the organisation 
actively seeks ways to reduce their use ; 

(c) energy consumption be measured , sources indicated , and measures to 
decrease overall consumption be adopted , while encouraging the use of renewable 
energy; 

(d ) water consumption be measured , sources indicated and measures to decrease 
overall consumption be adopted ; 

(e ) step -by -step plan to identify, and then quantify, sources of greenhouse gas 
emissions under its control, and activate measures to offset climate change in a time 
bound manner is effectively implemented ; 

(f) waste water including grey water, is treated effectively and reused , wherever 
possible ; 

(g ) solid waste management plan is implemented , with quantitative goals to 
minimise waste that is non -biodegradable , not reused or recycled ; 

(h ) use ofharmful substances including pesticides , harmful chemicals, swimming 
pool disinfectants and cleaning material is minimized , substituted , when available , by 
innocuous products , and all chemical use is properly managed ; 

(i) pollution from noise , light, runoff, erosion , ozone -depleting compounds and 
air and soil contaminants is reduced ; 


(j) biodiversity , ecosystems and landscapes are conserved ; 


(k ) refrain from participation in , accept, allow or encourage the use of, or display 
or trade in endangered species of flora and fauna, except trophy displays, as permitted 
under the law : 


( 1 ) no wildlife is held in captivity ; 


( m ) use of endemic native species for landscaping and restoration and takes 
measures to avoid the introduction of invasive alien species; 


( n ) biodiversity conservation , including supporting natural protected areas and 
areas of high biodiversity value is supported ; 

(0 ) interactions with wildlife not produce adverse effects on the viability of 
populations in the wild ; and 

(p ) any disturbance of natural ecosystems is minimised , and , if it occurs 
inadvertently , steps are taken for immediate rehabilitation and /or compensatory 
contribution for conservation of management. 

11 . ( 1) The Council shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and 
prepare annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The accounts and Funds of the Council shall be audited by the Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India and any expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be 
payable by the Council. 


Audit and 
Account. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


( 3 ) The accounts of the Council as certified by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral of 
India together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the Central 
Government which shall cause it to be laid before each House of Parliament. 


12 . No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any person or Protection of 
authority for anything which has been done or intended to be done in good faith under this action taken 

in good faith . 
Act or the rules made thereunder. 

13 . (1 ) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may, by order, published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions not remove 

difficulty . 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to be necessary for removing the 
difficulty : 


Provided that no such order shallbe made after the expiry of two years from the date of 
commencement of this Act . 


(2 ) Every ordermade under this section shall be laid , as soon asmay be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament. 


Power to 
make rules. 


14 . (1 ) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a totalperiod of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Today tourism is an important economic sector for any country . Tourism is also a 
source of revenue and economic growth . For an ancient civilization like India, tourism shall 
play a pivotal role in driving not just our messages and ancient wisdom , but shall also attract 
the world s tourists to India . 


Tourism is also increasingly being recognised for its contribution to national 
development strategies and in the global development. Tourism has been identified by the 
United Nations (UN ) as one of the ten sectors to drive the change towards a Green Economy 
and was included in the Rio + 20 Outcome Document as one of the sectors capable of making 
" a significant contribution to the three dimensions of sustainable development, has close 
linkages to other sectors, and can create decent jobs and generate trade opportunities" . 

India s share in international tourist arrivals is around 11.8 per cent. Moreover our 
foreign exchange due to tourism is also closer to $ 22 billion . For a country like India with rich 
history, heritage and culture , the potential from tourism is much higher. 

Therefore , the need is to channelize several policy interventions for tourism in India 
and create an affirmative legislative framework to tap into our tourism potential and make 
India as the prominent tourism country around the world . 


Hence this Bill . 


ANURAG SINGH THAKUR 


NEW DELHI; 
January 3, 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for establishment of a Sustainable Tourism Interventions 
Council . It also provides for appointment of representatives from Hotel Associations , etc. to 
the Council . Clause 4 provides for deputation of employees of the Central Government to the 
Council. It also provides for employment of persons on contractual basis to the Council . 
Clause 5 provides for constitution of a Heritage Fund to acquire vintage buildings as 
recognized under this Act. Clause 6 provides for constitution of a Tourism Satellite Account 
for economic measurement of tourism . Clause 7 provides for constitution of an Skill 
Enhancement Certification Agency . Clause 8 provides for choosing Target Five States for 
developmentand promotion of tourism in those States. Clause 9 provides for constitution of 
a Marketing Task Force for marketing and campaigning of tourism in the country. Clause 10 
provides for formulation of schemes and policies to incentivize the organizations and buildings 
involved in tourism industry. Clause 11 provides for maintenance of accounts and other 
relevant records of the Council. The Bill , therefore , if enacted will involve expenditure from 
the Consolidated Fund of India . Itis likely to involve a recurring expenditure of aboutrupees 
fifty crore per annum . 

A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees twenty crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 14 empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out the purposes 
of the Bill. Asthe rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of legislative power 
is of a normal character. 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 161 OF 2017 


A Bill to establish an effective regime to protect the right to privacy of data all 
natural person ; to set out conditions of surveillance and interception of 
communications of natural persons, and to constitute a Privacy 
Commission and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


WHEREAS the right to privacy is an inalienable right of all persons ; 

AND WHEREAS the need to protect privacy has increased in the digital age with the 
emergence of big data analytics ; 

AND WHEREAS the delivery of goods and provision of services requires the collection , 
storage , processing and disclosure including international transfers of personal data ; 

AND WHEREAS good governance requires that all interceptions of communications 
and surveillance must be conducted in a systematic and transparentmanner subservient to 
the rule of law ; 

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to harmonise any conflicting interests and competing 
legislations ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Now , THEREFORE, it is expedient to provide for an enforceable means to protect the 
privacy of persons; 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows 


CHAPTERI 
PRELIMINARY 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Data Privacy And Protection Act, 2017 . 

Short title , 

extent and 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India and, save as otherwise provided in this Act, it commencement . 
shall also apply to any offence or contravention hereunder committed outside India by 
any person . 


Definitions. 


(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2 . ( 1) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a ) “ anonymise ” means , in relation to personal data , the encryption or removal 
of all data thatmay , whether directly or indirectly in conjunction with any other data , 
be used to identify a natural person or data subject; 

(b ) “ appropriate government” means, in relation to the Central Government or a 
Union territory Administration , the Central Government; in relation to a State 
Government, thatGovernment of that State ; and , in relation to a public authority which 
is established , constituted , owned , controlled or substantially financed by funds 
provided directly or indirectly : 


(i) by the Central Government or a Union Territory Administration , the 
CentralGovernment; 


(ii ) by a State Government, the Government of that State; 


(c ) “ armed force” means any body raised or constituted pursuant to or in 
connection with , or presently governed by, the Army Act , 1950 , the Indian Reserve 
Forces Act, 1888 , the Territorial Army Act, 1948 , the Navy Act, 1957 , the Air Force Act, 
1950 , the Reserve and Auxiliary Air Forces Act, 1952 , the Coast Guard Act, 1978 or the 
Assam Rifles Act, 2006 ; 

(d ) “ authorised officer” means a Gazetted Officer of an All India Service or a 
Central Civil Service , as the case may be, who is empowered by the CentralGovernment, 
by notification in the OfficialGazette , to intercept a communication of another person 
or carry out surveillance of another person under the provisions of this Act; 

(e ) “ biometric data” means any data relating to the physical, physiological or 
behavioural characteristics of a natural person which allow their unique identification 
including , but not restricted to , facial images , fingerprints , hand prints, foot prints, iris 
recognition , hand writing , typing dynamics, gait analysis and speech recognition ; 

(f) “ Chief Privacy Commissioner ” and “ Privacy Commissioner” mean the 
Chief Privacy Commissioner and Privacy Commissioner, respectively appointed under 
section 33 ; 

( 8) “ collect " ,with its grammaticalvariations and cognate expressions,means , in 
relation to personal data , any action or activity that results in a data controller, police 
force , armed force, intelligence organisation , public authority , company, person , State 
or other entity (natural or otherwise ) obtaining, or coming into the knowledge or 
possession of, any personal data of another person ; 

( h ) “ communication ” means words, signs, gestures, spoken , written or indicated , 
in any form , manner or language , encrypted or unencrypted ,meaningful or otherwise , 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


and includes visual representations of words, ideas, symbols and images , and the 
meta data in relation whether transmitted or not transmitted and , if transmitted , 
irrespective of the medium of transmission; 


(i) “ competent organisation " means an organisation or public authority listed 
under Schedule to this Act ; 


(j) “ consent” means an unambiguous indication of a data subject s agreement to 
the collection , processing , use or dissemination of personal data relating to him or her. 


(k ) " data controller" means a person who , either solely, or jointly or in combination 
with other persons , determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any 
personal data is processed ; 

(1 ) “ data processor” means a person who processes any personal data on behalf 
of a data controller ; 

(m ) " data subject” means a natural person who is the subject of personal data ; 

(n ) “ deoxyribonucleic acid data” means all data, of whatever type , concerning 
the characteristics of a natural person that are inherited or acquired during early prenatal 
development; 

(0 ) “ destroy", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions,means, 
in relation to personal data , to cease the existence of, by deletion , erasure or otherwise , 
any personal data; 

(p ) “ disclose" ,with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means, 
in relation to personal data, any action or activity that results in a person coming into 
the knowledge or possession of any personal data of another person ; 

(q ) “ intelligence organisation ” means an intelligence organisation under the 
Intelligence Organisations (Restriction of Rights ) Act, 1985 and includes the National 
Investigation Agency constituted under sub -section ( 1) of section 3 of the National 
Investigation Agency Act, 2008 and the Central Bureau of Investigation constituted 
under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 ; 

(r) “ interception " or " intercept ” means any activity intended to capture, read , 
listen to or understand the communication of a person ; 

(s) “ officer- in -charge of a police station ” shall have the meaning ascribed to it 
under clause ( 0 ) of section 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 ; 

(t) “ person ” means and includes a natural person , a company, a firm , an 
association of persons or a body of individuals , whether incorporated or not ; 

(u ) “ personal data ” means any data which relates to a natural person if that 
person can , whether directly or indirectly in conjunction with any other data , be identified 
from it and includes sensitive personal data : 

Provided that the term “ personal data ” shall not include data which is a 
matter of public record except details of victims in cases of sexual assault , 
kidnapping or abduction . 
(v ) “ police force ” means 


(i) anybody raised or constituted by the appropriate government for the 
preservation of law and order and enforcement of laws related to customs, 
revenue , foreign exchange, excise, income tax and narcotics ; 

(ii) the bodies raised or constituted pursuant to or in connection with , or 
presently governed by, the Police Act, 1861, the Central Reserve Police Force 
Act, 1949, the Border Security Force Act, 1968 , the Indo - Tibetan Border Police 
Force Act, 1992 , the Sashastra SeemaBal Act, 2007 , the Central Industrial Security 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Force Act, 1968 , the Railway Protection Force Act, 1957 and the National Security 
Guard Act, 1986 ; or 


( iii) the bodies raised or constituted pursuant to or in connection with , or 
presently governed by, the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 , the 
Income Tax Act, 1961, the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008 and the 
Central Vigilance Commission Act , 2003 ; or 

(iv ) any police forces raised or constituted by the States, armed or 
otherwise ; 
(w ) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

( x) “ Privacy Commission ” means the Privacy Commission constituted under 
sub - section ( 1) of section 33 ; 

(y) “ Privacy Officer” means the Privacy Officer designated under sub - section 
( 3) of section 22 and sub -sections ( 3) and ( 4) of section 30 . 

(z) “ process", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means, 
in relation to personal data , any action or operation which is performed upon personal 
data of another person , whether or notby automated means including, but not restricted 
to , organisation , structuring, adaptation , modification , retrieval, consultation , use , 
alignment or destruction ; 

(za ) “ public authority ” shall have the meaning ascribed to it under clause (h ) of 
section 2 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 ; 

(zb ) “ receive ", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions,means, 
in relation to personal data , to come into the knowledge or possession of any personal 
data of another person ; 


(zc ) “ sensitive personal data” means personal data or metadata including 


(i) biometric data; 
( ii) deoxyribonucleic acid data; 
( iii) sexual preferences and practices; 
( iv) medical history and health ; 


(v) political affiliation ; 
(vi) ethnicity , religion , race or caste ; and 

(vii ) financial and credit information , including financial history and 
transactions . 

(zd ) “ store " , with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions,means, in 
relation to personal data , to retain , in any form or manner and for any purpose or 
reason , any personal data of another person ; and 

(ze ) “ surveillance ” means any activity , directly or indirectly intended to watch , 
monitor, record or collect, or to enhance the ability to watch , record or collect, any 
information , images, signals , data, movement, behaviour or actions, of a person , a 
group of persons, a place or an object, for the purpose of obtaining information of a 
person , but does not include collection of personal data under sections 7 and 8 of this 
Act. 

(2 ) All other expressions used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them 
under the General Clauses Act, 1897 or the Code ofCriminal Procedure, 1973 , as the case 
may be. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


= 


Principles 
applicable to 
protecting 
privacy . 


3. In exercising the powers conferred by this Act, regard shall be had to the following 
considerations, namely : — 

(a ) that personal data with its attributes belongs solely to the person to whom it 
pertains; 

(b ) that personal data is required by Governments and commercial service 
providers and others to enable good governance and the delivery of goods and 
provision of services without undue delay which may be provided by a meaningful, 
revocable notice and consent framework ; 

(c ) that the right to privacy is recognised as a fundamental human right by 
various international treaties to which India is a party ; 

(d ) that intrusions into privacy need always be measured by principles of necessity 
and proportionality ; 

(e ) that the rightto privacy is a fundamental right essential to themaintenance of 
a democratic society ; and 

(f) that privacy must be upheld by a competent authority that is independent, 
impartial , well resourced and free from unwarranted influence . 


Right to 
privacy. 


CHAPTER II 

RIGHT TO PRIVACY 
4 . ( 1) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained herein , all natural 
persons shall have a right to privacy which shall be implemented subject to provisions of 
section 3 . 

(2) For the purpose of sub - section (1) no person shall collect, store, process , disclose 
or otherwise handle any personal data of a natural person, intercept any communication of 
another person , or carry out surveillance of another person except in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act. 
5. Nothing in this Act shall apply to — 

( a ) the collection , storage or processing by a person of their own personal data 
for personal or family use ; or 

(b ) surveillance by a resident of their own residential property . 


Exemptions. 


CHAPTER III 
PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA 


Effective 
consent from 
a data subject. 


6 . A data subject may be said to have given effective consent only when it is — 

(1) free , in the terms of section 14 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 ; 

(2) obtained prior to all data collection , exceptin the cases expressly excluded by 
section 8 ; 

( 3) voluntarily given through an express and affirmative act and is recorded in 
writing : 
Provided that effective consent shall only be said to have been obtained where : 

(i) a conspicuous means for its withdrawal is made available to the data 
subject; and 

(ii) the means for its withdrawalmay be employed with the same ease as 
the means by which it was obtained . 

(4 ) obtained after the data subject has been duly informed , in language that a 
reasonable person may comprehend , of the matters enumerated in sub -section ( 3) of 
section 7 or sub - section ( 3 ) of section 13 as the case may be , and : 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Provided that, in case of any dispute, ambiguities in the terms of the notice 
and of any privacy policies that apply will be resolved in favour of the data 
subject; 

(5 ) specific and limited as to the purpose and duration . 
Explanation 1. For the purposes of this section consent shall be deemed to be 
limited only if it is obtained in respect of the purposes and duration strictly necessary to 
provide the product or service in relation to which personal data is sought to be collected , 
processed or disclosed ; 

Explanation 2. — When the purposes for which personal data was collected are 
materially altered or expanded subsequent to its collection , consent shall be deemed to be 
specific only if it is obtained afresh in respect of that alteration or expansion 

(i) after duly informing the data subject of the alteration or expansion in purpose , 
and 


(ii) prior to any use of that data for the expanded purposes. 
7 . (1) No person , including a data controller and data processor, shall collect any Collection of 
personal data without obtaining the effective consent of the data subject to whom it pertains . personal data. 

(2 ) Subject to sub -section (1), no person shall collect any personal data that is not 
necessary for the achievement of a purpose that is connected to a stated function of the 
person seeking its collection . 

(3) A person seeking to collect any personal data shall, prior to its collection and as 
notified by the Privacy Commission , inform the data subject free of any charges, direct or 
indirect, to whom it pertains ofthe following details in respect oftheir personal data ,namely — 

(a )when it shall be collected ; 
(b ) its content and nature ; 
(c ) the purpose of its collection; 
(d ) the purpose and manner in which it shall be used ; 
(e ) the persons to whom it shall bemade available ; 
(f) the duration for which it shall be stored ; 
( 8) the manner in which itmay be accessed , checked and modified ; 

(h ) the security practices and other safeguards, if any , to which it shall be 
subject; 

(i) the privacy policies and other policies, if any , that shall protect it ; 

(j) whether, and the conditions and procedure upon which , it may be disclosed 
to others ; 

(k ) the time and manner in which it shall be destroyed , or the criteria used to 
determine that time period ; 

(1) the procedure for recourse in case of any grievance in relation to it ; and 

(m ) the identity and contact details of the data collector and data processor. 
(4 ) The personal data collected in pursuance of a grant of consent by the data subject 
to whom it pertains shall, if that consent is subsequently withdrawn for any reason , be 
destroyed forthwith : 

Provided that the person who collected the personal data in respect of which 
consent is subsequently withdrawn may, only if the personal data is necessary for the 
delivery of any good or the provision of any service, or the fulfillment of a lawful 


46 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


contract, not deliver that good or deny that service or fulfil that contract to the data 
subject who withdrew the grant of consent easily and at any point during the duration 
of a service . 


8 . Personal data may be collected without the prior consent of the data subject if it 


Collection of 
personal data 
without prior 
consent. 


is 


Storage and 
destruction of 
personal data . 


(a ) necessary for the provision of an emergency medical service to the data subject; 

(b ) required for the establishment of the identity of the data subject and the collection 
is authorised by a law in this regard ; and 

(c ) necessary to prevent, investigate or prosecute a cognisable offence . 

9 . ( 1) No person , including a data controller and a data processor, shall store any 
personal data for a period longer than is necessary to achieve the purpose for which it was 
collected or received , or, if that purpose is achieved or ceases to exist for any reason , for any 
period following such achievement or cessation . 

( 2) Save as provided in sub - section ( 3 ), any personal data collected or received in 
relation to the achievement of a purpose shall , if that purpose is achieved or ceases to exist 
for any reason , be destroyed forthwith. 

( 3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , any personal data may be 
stored for a period longer than is necessary to achieve the purpose for which it was collected 
or received , or, if that purpose has been achieved or ceases to exist for any reason , for any 
period following such achievement or cessation , if — 

(a ) the data subject to whom it pertains grants their effective consent to such 
storage prior to the purpose for which it was collected or received being achieved or 
ceasing to exist; or 

(b ) it is adduced for an evidentiary purpose in a legal proceeding ; or 

( c) it is required to be stored for historical, statistical or research purposes under 
the provisions of an Act of Parliament: 


Provided that only such amount of personal data that is necessary to 
achieve the purpose of storage under this sub -section shall be stored and any 
personaldata that is not required to be stored for such purpose shall be destroyed 
forthwith : 


Provided further that any personal data stored under this sub -section 
shall, to the extent possible , be anonymised . 


Processing of 
personal data. 


10 . ( 1) No person shall process any personal data that is not necessary for the 
achievement of the purpose for which it was collected or received . 


(2 ) Save as provided in sub -section ( 3 ), no personal data shall be processed for any 
purpose other than the purpose for which it was collected or received . 


( 3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , any personal data may be 
processed for a purpose other than the purpose for which it was collected or received if the 
data subject grants their effective consent to such processing and only that amount of 
personal data that is necessary to achieve the other purpose is processed . 

(4 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , any personal data may be 
processed for a purpose other than the purpose for which it was collected or received if — 

(a ) the data subject grants his/her effective consent to the processing and only 
that amount of personal data that is necessary to achieve the other purpose is 
processed ; 

(b ) it is necessary to perform a contractual duty to the data subject; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


and 


(c ) it is necessary to prevent a reasonable threat to security of the State or public 
order; or 

(d ) it is necessary to prevent, investigate or prosecute a cognisable offence . 
11. ( 1) No person shall collect, receive , store, process or otherwise handle any personal Security of 
data without implementing measures, including,butnot restricted to , technological, physical personal data 
and administrative measures , adequate to secure its confidentiality, secrecy, integrity and 

confidentiality . 
safety, including from theft, loss, damage or destruction . 

( 2) Any person who collects, receives , stores, processes or otherwise handles any 
personal data shall be subject to a duty of confidentiality and secrecy in respect of it . 

( 3) The data controllers and data processors shall be subject to a duty of confidentiality 
and secrecy in respect of personal data in their possession or control . 

(4 ) Without prejudice to the provisions of this section , any person who collects, 
receives, stores, processes or otherwise handles any personal data shall, if its confidentiality, 
secrecy, integrity or safety is violated by theft , loss, negligence , damage or destruction , or as 
a result of any collection , processing or disclosure contrary to the provisions of this Act, or 
for any other reason whatsoever, as soon as he or she becomes aware of such violation , 
notify the person to whom it pertains, the Privacy Commission and any other agencies whom 
the Central Government notifies for this purpose , in such form and manner as may be 
prescribed , forthwith . Further, any persons, who collects , receives , stores, processes, or 
otherwise handles any personal data shall report all breaches of provisions of this Chapter III 
to the Privacy Commission , that are brought to its notice , or are reasonably expected to be 
known to such persons . 

12 . ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this section , personal data that has been collected Transfer of 
in conformity with this Act may be transferred by a data controller for to a data processor, personal data 

for processing 
whether located in India or otherwise ,if the transfer is pursuant to an agreement that explicitly 
binds the data processor to same or stronger measures in respect of the storage , processing , 
destruction , disclosure and other handling of the personal data as are contained in this Act. 

(2 ) No data processor shall process any personal data transferred under this section 
except to achieve the purpose for which it was collected . 

( 3 ) A data controller that transfers personal data under this section shall remain liable 
to the data subject for the actions of the data processor. 

13. ( 1) Save as provided in this section , no person shall disclose, or otherwise cause Disclosure of 
any other person to receive , the content or nature of any personal data , including any other personal data . 
details in respect thereof, except to the person to whom it pertains. 


(2 ) No person shall disclose any personal data without obtaining the prior effective 
consent of the data subject and such effective consentmay be obtained in any manner, and 
through any medium , but shall not be obtained as a result of a threat, duress , denial of 
service or coercion . 


(3 ) For the purpose of sub -section ( 2) , a person seeking to disclose any personal data 
shall , prior to its disclosure, inform the data subject of the following details in respect of their 
personal data , namely : — 

(a ) when it shall be disclosed ; 
(b ) the purpose of its disclosure ; 

(c ) the security practices and other safeguards, if any , to which it shall be subject 
to ; 

(d ) the privacy policies and other policies, if any, that shall protect it ; and 
(e ) the procedure for recourse in case of any grievance in relation to it. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


- 


(4 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , any person who collects , 
receives, stores, processes or otherwise handles any personal data may disclose it to a 
person other than the data subject , whether located in India or otherwise , for the purpose 
only of processing it to achieve the purpose for which it was collected if such a disclosure is 
pursuant to an agreement that explicitly binds the person receiving it to same or stronger 
measures in respect of its storage, processing , destruction , disclosure or other handling as 
are contained in this Act. 


Quality and 
accuracy of 
personal data . 


14 . ( 1) Any person who collects , receives, stores, processes or otherwise handles any 
personal data shall, to the extent possible, ensure that it is accurate and, where necessary , is 
kept up to date . 

(2 ) No person who collects , receives, stores , processes or otherwise handles any 
personal data shall deny, to the data subject, the opportunity to review and obtain a copy of 
such data and , where necessary, rectify anything that is inaccurate or not up to date . 

(3) Any person to whom any personal data collected , received , stored , processed or 
otherwise handled under this Act pertains may, if it is not necessary to achieve the purpose 
of its collection , reception , storage, processing or other handling , demand its destruction , 
and the person so collecting, receiving, storing, processing or otherwise handling that 
personal data shall destroy it forthwith . 


Special 
provisions for 
sensitive 
personal data . 


15 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the provisions of any other 
law for the time being in force 


(a ) no person shall collect sensitive personal data without explicit effective 
consent from the data subject; 


(b ) no person shall store sensitive personal data for a period longer than is 
necessary to achieve the purpose for which it was collected or received , or, if that 
purpose has been achieved or ceases to exist for any reason , for any period following 
such achievement or cessation ; 


(c ) no person shall process sensitive personal data for a purpose other than the 
purpose for which it was collected or received ; and 


(d ) no person shall disclose sensitive personal data to another person , or 
otherwise cause any other person to come into the knowledge or possession of, the 
content or nature of any sensitive personal data , including any other details in respect 
thereof, except the data subject . 

16 . (1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the provisions of sections 6 , 
7 , 8 , sub -section (4 ) of section 10 and section 11 shall not apply in respect of an intelligence 
organisation . 


Special 
provisions for 
intelligence 
organisations. 


(2) Any intelligence organisation seeking to collect any personal data shall prefer an 
application , in such form and manner as may be prescribed ,to the Chief Privacy Commissioner 
or any other person authorised by him in this behalf. 

(3 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner, or any other person authorised by him in 
this behalf, may, if he is satisfied that the collection of the personal data is necessary to 
prevent a reasonable threat to security of the state or public order, or prevent, investigate or 
prosecute a cognisable offence , order the collection of the personal data by recording 
reasons in writing within a period of fourteen days from the receipt of an application under 
sub -section ( 2) . 


(4 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (2 ) and subsection ( 3), if the 
Central Government is satisfied that a serious threat to the security of the State or public 
order exists , it may , for reasons to be recorded in writing , which shall include the reason for 
not getting an order under sub -section (3), order the collection of any personal data. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


49 


(5) Before the expiry of a period of seven days from the date of an order for collection 
of personal data made under sub - section (4 ), the intelligence organisation that collected the 
personal data shall notify the Chief Privacy Commissioner of the fact of such collection, the 
name and address of the person to whom the personal data pertains and shall furnish a copy 
of the order of the CentralGovernment authorising the collection of the personal data . 

(6 ) No intelligence organisation shall process or store any personal data without 
implementing measures to secure that the number of persons within that intelligence 
organisation to whom it is made available, and the extent to which it is copied , is limited to the 
minimum that is necessary to fulfill the purpose for which it is processed or stored , as the 
case may be . 

(7 ) Any intelligence organisation that processes or stores personal data shall, before 
the expiry of a period of seven days from the date of the processing or storage , as the case 
may be , notify the Chief Privacy Commissioner of the fact of such processing or storage and 
the name and address of the person to whom the personal data pertains . 

( 8 ) Any intelligence organisation that processes or stores personal data shall have to 
comply with the provisions of section 10 with respect to such data . 

CHAPTER IV 


INTERCEPTION OF COMMUNICATIONS 


of 


17 . ( 1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in Bar against 
force , but save as provided in this chapter, no person shall intercept, or cause to be intercepted , interce 
any communication of another person save in pursuance of an order by the Chief Privacy 

communications. 
Commissioner or any other person authorised by him in this behalf . 

(2 ) No interception of any communication shall be ordered or carried out that is not 
necessary to achieve the purpose for which the interception is sought. 
18 . (1 ) Any authorised officer seeking to intercept any communication of another Prior 

authorisation 
person shall prefer an application , in such form and manner as may be prescribed , to the 

by the Chief 
Chief Privacy Commissioner or any other person authorised by him in this behalf . 

Privacy 

Commissioner. 
(2) The Chief Privacy Commissioner, or any other person authorised by him in this 
behalf, may , if he is satisfied that the interception is necessary to prevent a reasonable threat 
to security of the state or public order, or prevent, investigate or prosecute a cognisable 
offence , order the interception of communications by recording reasons in writing within a 
period of fourteen days from the receipt of an application under sub -section (1 ). 

( 3) The Chief Privacy Commissioner, or any other person authorised by him in this 
behalf, shall prior to issuing an order for interception of any communication , satisfy himself 
that all other lawful means to acquire the information sought to be intercepted have been 
exhausted and that the proposed interception is reasonable, proportionate and not excessive . 

(4 ) Any interception of any communication ordered , authorised or carried out prior to 
the commencement of this Act shall , immediately upon the constitution of the Privacy 
Commission ,be reported to the Chief Privacy Commissioner. 

19 . (1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 17 , if the Home Secretary of the Authorisation 
appropriate government is satisfied that an imminent serious threat to the security of the by Home 

Secretary in 
State or public order exists , hemay, for reasons to be recorded in writing, order the interception 

emergent 
of any communication . 

circumstances. 
(2) No order for interception of any communication made under this section shall be 
valid upon the expiry of a period of seven days from the date of the order. 

( 3) Before the expiry of a period of seven days from the date of an order for interception 
made under this section , the person who carried out the interception of communication shall 
notify the Chief Privacy Commissioner of the fact of such interception , the name and address 
of the person whose communication is being intercepted , and the duration of the interception 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Duration of 
interception . 


and , furthermore , shall furnish a copy of the order of the Home Secretary authorising the 
interception. 

20 . ( 1) An order for interception of any communication shall specify the period of its 
validity and , upon the expiry of the validity of the order, all interception carried out in relation 
to that order shall cease forthwith : 


Duty to 
inform the 
person 
concerned . 


Provided that no order for interception of any communication shall be valid 
upon the expiry of a period of sixty days from the date of such order. 

(2 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner, or any other person authorised by him in this 
behalf, may, upon receipt of an application from an authorised officer in such form and 
manner as may be prescribed , renew any order for interception of any communication if he is 
satisfied that the conditions upon which the original order was issued continue to exist. 

21. (1 ) Subject to sub -section ( 2 ), before the expiry of a period of sixty days from the 
conclusion of any interception of communication ordered or carried out under this Act, the 
authorised officer who carried out the interception of communication shall, in writing in such 
form and manner as may be prescribed , notify, with reference to the relevant order of the 
Chief Privacy Commissioner, each person whose communication was intercepted of the fact 
of such interception and duration thereof. 

(2 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner may, on an application made by an authorised 
officer in such form and manner as may be prescribed , if he is satisfied that the notification 
under sub -section ( 1) may reasonably present a reasonable threat to the security of the state 
or public order, or adversely affect the prevention , investigation or prosecution of a cognisable 
offence , for reasons to be recorded in writing addressed to the authorised officer, order that 
the person whose communication was intercepted not be notified of the fact of such 
interception or the duration thereof: 


Security and 
duty of 
confidentiality 
and secrecy . 


Provided any orders passed preventing disclosure of interception under section 
(2 ) shall not operate in infinity and shall record reasons in writing with the period till 
when the reasonable threat is anticipated to extend , on whose cessation the duty to 
inform under sub -section ( 1) shall operate . 

22 . (1) No person shall intercept any communication of another person without 
implementing measures , including , but not restricted to , technological, physical and 
administrative measures, to secure the confidentiality and secrecy of all information obtained 
as a result of an interception of communication , including from theft, negligence, loss or 
unauthorised disclosure . 


(2) Any person who carries out any interception of any communication , or who obtains 
any information , including personal data, as a result of an interception of communication , 
shall be subject to a duty of confidentiality and secrecy in respect of it . 


Disclosure of 
intercepted 
communications. 


(3 ) Every competent organisation shall, before the expiry of a period of one hundred 
days from the date of enactment of this Act, designate as many officers as it deems fit as 
Privacy Officers who shall be administratively responsible for administration of all 
interceptions of communications carried out by that competent organisation . 

23 . ( 1) Save as provided in this section , no person shall disclose to any other person , 
or otherwise cause any other person to come into the knowledge or possession of, the 
content or nature of any information , including personal data , obtained as a result of an 
interception of any communication including the fact that the interception of communication 
was carried out. 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , if the disclosure of any 
information , including personal data , obtained as a result of an interception of any 
communication is necessary to prevent a reasonable threat to the security of the state or 
public order, or prevent, investigate or prosecute a cognisable offence , an authorised 
officer may disclose the information , including personal data , obtained as a result of the 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


interception of any communication to any authorised officer of any other competent 
organization : 

Provided that no authorised officer shall disclose any information , including 
personal data, obtained as a result of the interception of any communication that is not 
necessary to achieve the purpose for which the disclosure is sought. 

24 . (1) Subject to sub -section (2), no person shall store any information , including Storage of 
personal data , obtained as a result of an interception of any communication for a period intercepted 

communications . 
longer than one hundred and eighty days from the date on which the last order for interception 
of the communication to which the obtained information pertains expired . 

(2 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner may, on an application made in such form and 
manner as may be prescribed , if he is satisfied that it is necessary to prevent a reasonable 
threat to the security of the state or public order, or to prevent, investigate or prosecute a 
cognizable offence, for reasons to be recorded in writing, order that any information , including 
personal data , obtained as a result of an interception of any communication may be stored 
for a period longer than one hundred and eighty days from the date on which the last order 
for interception of the communication to which the obtained information pertains expired . 

(3) Any data obtained as a result of interception of any communication shall be stored 
in a manner that complies with the provisions of section 9 with respect to such data . 


CHAPTER V 


SURVEILLANCE 


25 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force , Bar against 
but save as provided in this chapter, no person shall order or carry out, or cause or assist the surveillance . 
ordering or carrying out of, any surveillance of another person : 

Provided that there shall be an absolute bar to the subjection of persons to 
indiscriminate monitoring through any methods of mass or bulk surveillance given 
that it is neither necessary or proportionate to any stated purpose including but not 
limited to the security of state , interests of public order or to prevent, investigate or 
prosecute a commission of a cognizable offence . 

26 . (1 ) No member of a police force , armed force , intelligence organisation , public Surveillance 
authority or the State shall order or carry out, or cause to be ordered or carried out, any by the State . 
surveillance of another person save in pursuance of an order by the Chief Privacy 
Commissioner or any other person authorised by him in this behalf. 

(2) No surveillance shall be ordered or carried out that is not necessary to achieve the 
purpose for which the surveillance is sought. 

( 3) Any authorised officer seeking to carry out any surveillance of another person 
shall prefer an application , in such form and manner as may be prescribed , to the Chief 
Privacy Commissioner or any other person authorised by him in this behalf. 

(4 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner, or any other person authorised by him this behalf, 
may, if he is satisfied that the surveillance is necessary to prevent a reasonable threat to the 
security of the state or public order, or to prevent, investigate or prosecute a cognizable 
offence , for reasons to be recorded in writing addressed to the authorised officer, order the 
surveillance . 

(5 ) Prior to issuing an order for surveillance , the Chief Privacy Commissioner, or any 
other person authorised by him in this behalf , shall satisfy himself that all other lawful means 
to acquire the information sought to be obtained as a result of the proposed surveillance 
have been exhausted and that the proposed surveillance is reasonable , proportionate and 
not excessive . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Surveillance 

27 . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in 
by private 

force, and without prejudice to the provisions of section 25 , no person who is not a member 
persons or 
entities . 

of a police force , armed force, intelligence organisation, public authority or the State shall 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, any surveillance in any public place or in any property 
or premises that is not in his possession . 

(2 ) Without prejudice to sub -section (1), any person who carries out any surveillance 
under this section shall be subject to a duty to inform , in such manner as may be prescribed , 

members of the public of such surveillance . 
Duration of 

28 . ( 1) An order for surveillance shall specify the period of its validity and , upon the 
surveillance. expiry of the validity of the order, all surveillance carried out in relation to that order shall 

cease forthwith : 

Provided that no order for surveillance shall be valid upon the expiry of a period 
of sixty days from the date of the order. 

(2 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner, or any other person authorised by him in this 
behalf, may, upon receipt of an application from an authorised officer in such form and 
manner as may be prescribed , renew any order for surveillance if he is satisfied that the 

conditions upon which the original order was issued continue to exist . 
Duty to 

29. (1) Subject to sub - section (2), before the expiry of a period of sixty days from the 
inform the 

conclusion of any surveillance ordered or carried out under this Act, the authorised officer 
person 

who carried out the surveillance shall, in writing in such form and manner asmay be prescribed , 
concerned . 

notify , with reference to the relevant order of the Chief Privacy Commissioner , each person in 
respect of whom surveillance was carried out of the fact of such surveillance and duration 
thereof. 

(2) The Chief Privacy Commissioner may, on an application made by an authorised 
officer in such form and manner as may be prescribed , if he is satisfied that the notification 
under sub- section ( 1) may present a reasonable threat to the security of the State or public 
order , or adversely affect the prevention , investigation or prosecution of a cognizable offence , 
for reasons to be recorded in writing addressed to the authorised officer, order that the 
person not be notified of the fact of such surveillance or the duration thereof: 

Provided that any order passed which prevent disclosure of surveillance under 
Sub -section ( 2 ) shall not operate in infinity and the Chief Privacy Commissioner shall 
record reasons in writing with the period till when the reasonable threat is anticipated 

to extend, on whose cessation the duty to inform under sub -section (1 ) shall operate . 
Security and 

30 . ( 1) No person shall carry out any surveillance of another person without 
duty of implementing measures , including, but not restricted to , technological, physical and 
confidentiality 

ity administrative measures ,to secure the confidentiality and secrecy of all information obtained 
and secrecy . 

as a result of surveillance , including from theft , loss or unauthorised disclosure. 

(2 ) Any person who carries out any surveillance , or who obtains any information , 
including personal data, as a result of surveillance ,shall be subject to a duty of confidentiality 
and secrecy in respect of it. 

(3) Every police force , armed force,intelligence organisation , public authority or State 
shall , before the expiry of a period of one hundred days from the enactment of this Act, 
designate as many officers as it deems fit as Privacy Officers who shall be administratively 
responsible for all surveillance carried out: 


Provided that a public authority that does not order or carry out surveillance 
shall not be required to designate any Privacy Officers under this sub -section . 

(4 ) Every person who is not a member of a police force, armed force , intelligence 
organisation , public authority or State and who seeks to carry out any surveillance shall, at 
least seven days before the surveillance is first carried out, designate or appoint as many 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


persons as it deems fit as Privacy Officers who shall be responsible for all surveillance 
carried out: 

Provided that where surveillance is carried out by a single person , that person 
shall be deemed to be a Privacy Officer. 

31. (1 ) Save as provided in this section , no person shall disclose to any other person , 
or otherwise cause any other person to come into the knowledge or possession of, the 
content or nature of any information , including personal data , obtained as a result of any 
surveillance including the fact that the surveillance was carried out. 


Disclosure of 
surveillance. 


( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section , if the disclosure of any 
information , including personal data , obtained as a result of surveillance is necessary to 
prevent a reasonable threat to the security of the State or public order, or prevent, investigate 
or prosecute a cognizable offence , that information , including personal data , obtained as a 
result of surveillance may be disclosed to a police force , armed force, intelligence organisation , 
public authority or State only : 

Provided that no person shall disclose any information , including personal data , 
obtained as a result of surveillance that is not necessary to achieve the purpose for 
which the disclosure is sought. 

32 . (1 ) Subject to sub - section ( 2), no person shall store any information, including 
personal data , obtained as a result of surveillance for a period longer than one hundred and 
eighty days from the date on which the surveillance to which the obtained information 
pertains ceased . 

( 2 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner may , on an application made in such form and 
manner as may be prescribed, if he is satisfied that it is necessary to prevent a reasonable 
threat to the security of the state or public order, or to prevent, investigate or prosecute a 
cognizable offence , for reasons to be recorded in writing, order that any information , including 
personal data , obtained as a result of surveillance may be stored for a period longer than one 
hundred and eighty days from the date on which the last order for surveillance to which the 
obtained information pertains expired . 


Storage of 
surveillance 
data . 


( 3 ) Any data obtained as a result of surveillance shall be stored in a manner that 
complies with the provisions of section 9 with respect to such data . 


CHAPTER VI 
THE PRIVACY COMMISSION 


33. ( 1) The Central Government shall,by notification , constitute , with effect from such Constitution 
date as may be specified therein , a body to be called the Privacy Commission consisting of of the Privacy 

Commission . 
a Chief Privacy Commissioner and not more than six other Privacy Commissioners, to be 
appointed by the President, by warrant under its hand and seal, to exercise the jurisdiction 
and powers and discharge the functions and duties conferred or imposed upon them by or 
under this Act. 


( 2) The Chief Privacy Commissioner shall be a person who has been a Judge of the 
Supreme Court of India . 


( 3) One Privacy Commissioner shall be a person who is or has been a Judge of a High 
Court. 


(4 ) One Privacy Commissioner shall be a person of ability ,integrity and standingwho 
has a special knowledge of, and professional experience of not less than ten years in privacy 
law and policy. 

(5) The other Privacy Commissioners shall be persons with technical expertise and 
knowledge in the fields of data collection and storage practices, or data protection and 
ethics, or big data analytics and technologies or information technology while one Privacy 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Commissioner should be an ordinary citizen representing the interests of the public who are 
consumers of data . 
(6 ) The headquarters of the Privacy Commission shall be atNew Delhi: 

Provided that the CentralGovernment shall, in consultation with the Chief Privacy 
Commissioners may establish its offices at such other places at it deems fit . 

(7 ) The office of the Privacy Commission shall be a body corporate by the name of 
aforesaid , autonomous, independent, and free from external interference and shall be the 
said name, sue or be sued . 

(8) The office of the Privacy Commission shall be provided with sufficient operational 
resources including human , technical, and financial for the effective discharge of its duties 
and exercise of its powers : 

Provided that such powers shall be subject to audit by the Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India. 

(9) The CentralGovernment shall issue a public advertisement inviting applications to 
fill all vacancies in the Privacy Commission . 

(10 ) For the purpose of filling vacancies under sub -section (8 ) the Privacy Commissioner 
shall constitute a selection committee which shall consist of the Chief Justice of India , the 
Law Minister, the Leader of the Opposition from the House of the People or of the single 
largest Opposition party being one with the greatest numerical strength in the House of the 
People , one eminent person representing the private sector and one eminent person 
representing the civil society to be nominated by the CentralGovernment in such manner as 
may be prescribed . 
( 11 ) Every proceeding of the selection committee shall constitute as a public record . 

Explanation . — For the purpose of this section , the term “ Civil society” shall 
mean the aggregate of non -Governmental and non -profit organisations that perform 
activities for the general upliftment and interests of the people in the field of privacy 

and is independent of government funding, interference or influence . 
Term of 

34 . ( 1) The President shall before appointing any person as the Chief Privacy 
office, 

Commissioner or Privacy Commissioner , as the case may be , satisfy himself that the person 
conditions of 

does not, and shall not, have any such financial or other interest as is likely to affect 
service , etc . of 
Chief Privacy prejudicially their functions as such Chief Privacy Commissioner or Privacy Commissioner 
Commissioner as the case may be . 
and Privacy 
Commissioners . 

(2) The ChiefPrivacy Commissioner and every Privacy Commissioner shall hold office 
for such period , not exceeding five years, asmay be specified by the President in the order of 
his appointment and be eligible for reappointment: 

Provided that no person shall hold office as the Chief Privacy Commissioner or 
Privacy Commissioner formore than two terms; 

Provided further that no person shall hold office as the Chief Privacy 
Commissioner or Privacy Commissioner after they have attained the age of seventy 
five years . 

(3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (2), the Chief Privacy 
Commissioner or any Privacy Commissioner may 

(a ) by writing under his hand and addressed to the President resign his office at 
any time; or 

(b ) be removed from office in accordance with the provisions of section 35 . 
(4) A vacancy caused by the resignation or removal of the Chief Privacy Commissioner 
or Privacy Commissioner under sub -section ( 3 ) shall be filled by fresh appointment. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


55 


(5) In the event of the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the Chief Privacy 
Commissioner, the Presidentmay , by notification , authorise in his behalf, one of the Privacy 
Commissioners as the Chief Privacy Commissioner till the date on which a new Chief Privacy 
Commissioner, appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Act, enters upon his 
office . 


(6 ) When the Chief Privacy Commissioner is unable to discharge his functions owing 
to absence, illness or any other cause , such one of the Privacy Commissioners as the Chief 
Privacy Commissionermay authorise in writing in this behalf shall discharge the functions of 
the Chief Privacy Commissioner, till the date on which the Chief Privacy Commissioner 
resumes his duties. 

(7 ) The salaries and allowances payable to and the other terms and conditions of 
service of the Chief Privacy Commissioner and Privacy Commissioners shall be such asmay 
be prescribed : 

Provided thatneither the salary and allowances nor the other terms and conditions 
of service of the Chief Privacy Commissioner and any Privacy Commissioner shall be 
varied to their disadvantage after their appointment. 

(8 ) The Chief Privacy Commissioner and Privacy Commissioners ceasing to hold office 
as such shall not hold any appointmentunder theGovernment of India or under the Government 
of any State for a period of five years from the date on which they cease to hold such office . 
35 . (1) The President may remove from office the Chief Privacy Commissioner or any Removal of 

Chief Privacy 
Privacy Commissioner, who — 

Commissioner 
(a ) is adjudged an insolvent; or 

and Privacy 

Commissioners 
(b ) engages during his term of office in any paid employment outside the duties from office in 
of his office ; or 

certain 

circumstances. 
(c ) is unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmity of mind or body ; or 


(d ) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court ; or 

(e ) is convicted for an offence which in the opinion of the President involves 
moral turpitude ; or 


(f) has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affectprejudicially 
his functions as a Chief Privacy Commissioner or Privacy Commissioner, or cause 
some conflict of interest including benefits directly or indirectly to relatives or family 
members, or 


( g) has so abused his position as to render his continuance in offence prejudicial 
to the public interest. 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1 ),neither the Chief Privacy 
Commissioner nor any Privacy Commissioner shall be removed from his office on the 
ground specified in clause (f) or clause (g ) of that sub - section unless the Supreme Court 
on a reference being made to it in this behalf by the President, has on an inquiry held by 
it in accordance with such procedure as it may specify in this behalf, reported that the 
Chief Privacy Commissioner or Privacy Commissioner ought, on such grounds, to be 
removed . 

36 . (1) The Privacy Commission may, through decisions arrived atby a simple majority Functions of 
of its members present and voting as set out in Section 44 ( 1) of this Act, authorise , review , the Privacy 

Commission . 
investigate,make an inquiry , and /or monitor, suo moto or on a petition presented to it by any 
person or by someone acting on his behalf, the implementation and application of this Act 
and give such directions or pass such orders as are necessary for reasons to be recorded in 
writing 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision , the Privacy 
Commission shall perform all or any of the following functions, namely — 

(a ) review the safeguards provided under this Act and under other laws for the 
time being in force for the protection of personal data and recommend measures for 
their effective implementation or amendment, as may be necessary from timeto time; 

(b ) authorise, review , investigate,make an inquiry , and /ormonitor anymeasures 
taken by any competent organisation , police force, armed force , intelligence 
organisation , public authority , company , person or other entity for the protection of 
privacy and take such further action is it deems fit; 

(c) authorise , review , investigate, make an inquiry , and /or monitor any action , 
code , certification , policy or procedure of any competent organisation , police force , 
armed force , intelligence organisation , public authority, company, person or other 
entity to ensure compliance with this Act and any rules made hereunder; 

(d ) Investigate and direct data controllers and processors to do or cease to do 
any act in order to address activity which is in contravention of the provisions of this 
Act ; 

(e ) formulate through public consultation with experts , other stakeholders, and 
the general public, norms for the effective protection of privacy by competent 
organisations, police forces, armed forces, intelligence organisations , public authorities, 
companies, persons or other entities; 

(1) promote awareness and knowledge of personal data protection through any 
means necessary and to all stakeholders including providing information to any data 
subject regarding their rights under this Act as requested ; 

(g ) undertake and promote research in the field of protection of personal data 
and privacy; 

(h ) encourage the efforts of non - governmental organisations and institutions 
working in the field of personal data protection and privacy ; 

(i) publish periodic reports concerning the incidence of compliance including 
violations of this Act and data breaches as reported under sub - section (4 ) of section 11 
of this Act, collection , processing , storage , disclosure and other handling of personal 
data, interception of communications and surveillance ; 

(j) hear and decide applications for interception and surveillance under Chapters 
IV and V of this Act; 

(k ) exercise its powers under section 28 , to ensure the speedy and efficient 
redressal of all complaints whose cause of action arises from this Act; and 

(1) such other functions as it may consider necessary for the protection of 
privacy, personal data , and enforcement of this Act. 

(3 ) The Periodic Reports published by the Privacy Commission , stipulated in sub 
section (2 ) of section 36 , shall be tabled by the Central Government before the House of the 
People during the Parliamentary Session that succeeds the publication of such Periodic 
Report. 

(4) The Chief Privacy Commissioner and the Privacy Commissioners shall appear 
before an ad hoc Committee , constituted by the Speaker of the House of the People and 
comprising of members from both the governing and the opposition parties from both houses 
of Parliament to be nominated by presiding officers of the House concerned , on an annual 
basis , in such manner as may be prescribed which shall , — 

(i) review the functioning of the Privacy Commission , and may ask the Chief 
Privacy Commissioner and the Privacy Commissioners any questions in this regard ; 
and 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


( ii) present periodic reports to both houses of Parliament in such manner asmay 
be prescribed . 

(5 ) Subject to the provisions of any rules prescribed in this behalf by the Central 
Government, the Privacy Commission shall have the power to review any decision , judgement, 
decree or order made by it . 

(6 ) In the exercise of its functions under this Act, the Privacy Commission shall give 
such directions or pass such orders as are necessary for reasons to be recorded in writing. 

37. ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall appoint a Secretary to the Privacy Commission to 
exercise and perform , under the control of the Chief Privacy Commissioner such powers and 
duties as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The Central Governmentmay provide the Privacy Commission with such other 
officers and employees as may be necessary for the efficient performance of the functions of 
the Privacy Commission . 

(3 ) The salaries and allowances payable to and the conditions of service of the Secretary 
and other officers and employees of the Privacy Commission shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 

38 . No act or proceedings of the Privacy Commission shall be questioned on the 
ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the constitution of the Privacy 
Commission or any defect in the appointment of a person acting as the Chief Privacy 
Commissioner or Privacy Commissioner. 


Secretary , 
officers and 
other 
employees of 
the 
Commission . 


Vacancies , etc . 
not to 
invalidate 
proceedings of 
the Privacy 
Commission . 


39. The Chief Privacy Commissioner and Privacy Commissioners and other employees 
of the Privacy Commission shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of 
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 . 


Chief Privacy 
Commissioner , 
Privacy 
Commissioners 
and employees 
of the Privacy 
Commission 
to be public 
servants . 


Procedure to 
be followed by 
the Privacy 
Commission . 


40 . ( 1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Privacy Commission shall have 
powers to regulate — 

(a ) the procedure and conduct of its business; and 

(b ) the delegation to one or more Privacy Commissioners of such powers or 
functions as the Chief Privacy Commissioner may specify . 

( 2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, 
the powers of the Privacy Commission shall include the power to determine the extent to 
which persons interested or claiming to be interested in the subject-matter of any proceeding 
before it may be allowed to be present or to be heard , either by themselves or by their 
representatives or to cross -examine witnesses or otherwise take part in the proceedings: 

Provided that any such procedure as may be prescribed or followed shall be 
guided by the principles of natural justice . 

41 . ( 1) The Privacy Commission shall, for the purposes of any inquiry or for any other 
purpose under this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code 
of Civil Procedure , 1908 , while trying suits in respect of the following matters, namely — 

( a ) the summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from any part of 
India and examininghim on oath ; 


Power relating 
to inquiries. 


(b ) the discovery and production of any document or other material object 
producible as evidence ; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Decisions of 
the Privacy 
Commission . 


(c) the reception of evidence on affidavit; 
(d ) the requisitioning of any public record from any court or office ; 
(e ) the issuing of any commission for the examination of witnesses; and 

(1) any other matter which may be prescribed . 
(2) The Privacy Commission shall have power to require any person , subject to any 
privilege which may be claimed by that person under any law for the time being in force, to 
furnish information on such points or matters as, in the opinion of the Privacy Commission , 
may be useful for, or relevant to , the subjectmatter of an inquiry and any person so required 
shall be deemed to be legally bound to furnish such information within the meaning of 
sections 176 and 177 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 . 

(3) The Privacy Commission or any Gazetted Officer, specially authorised in this behalf 
by the Privacy Commission may enter any building or place where the Privacy Commission 
has reason to believe that any document relating to the subjectmatter of the inquiry may be 
found , and may seize any such document or take extracts or copies therefrom subject to the 
provisions of section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, in so far as it may be 
applicable. 

(4 ) The Privacy Commission shall be deemed to be a civil court and when any offence 
as is described in section 175 , section 178 , section 179 , section 180 or section 228 of the 
Indian Penal Code, 1860 is committed in the view or presence of the Privacy Commission , the 
Privacy Commission may, after recording the facts constituting the offence and the statement 
of the accused as provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, forward the case to 
a Magistrate having jurisdiction to try the same and the Magistrate to whom any such case 
is forwarded shall proceed to hear the complaint against the accused as if the case had been 
forwarded to him under section 346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 . 

42 . (1) The decisions of the Privacy Commission shall be taken by majority of the 
member present and voting and be binding and enforceable as a decree of a court as per the 
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. 
(2) In its decisions, the Privacy Commission shall have the power to — 

( a ) require a competent organisation , police force, armed force , intelligence 
organisation , public authority , company, person or other entity to take such steps as 
may be necessary to secure compliance with the provisions of this Act; 

(b ) require a competent organisation , police force , armed force , intelligence 
organisation public authority, company, person or other entity to compensate any 
person for any loss or detriment suffered ; and 

(c ) impose any of the penalties provided under this Act. 
43. The Privacy Commission shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of 
section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 , and every proceeding 
before the Privacy Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning 
of section 193 and section 228 and for the purposes of section 196 of the Indian Penal Code , 
1860. 

44 . No order passed under this Act shall be appealable except as provided therein and 
no civil court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the Privacy Commission 
is empowered by , or under, this Act to determine and no injunction shall be granted by any 
court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any 
power conferred by or under this Act 

45 . On and from the appointed day, no court or authority shall have, or be entitled to 
exercise , any jurisdiction , powers or authority, except the Supreme Court and a High Court 
exercising powers under articles 32, 226 and 227 of the Constitution , in relation to matters 
over which the Privacy Commission has jurisdiction. 


Proceedings 
before the 
Privacy 
Commission 
to be judicial 
proceedings . 


Appeal. 


Jurisdiction . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


CHAPTER VII 
REGULATION BY DATA CONTROLLERS AND DATA PROCESSORS 
46 . (1 ) Without prejudice to the provisions of clause (d ) of sub - section (2 ) of section Co-regulation 
36 , the Privacy Commission may, after a public consultation , formulate codes of conduct for by Data 

Controllers 
the collection , storage, processing , disclosure or other handling of any personal data . 

and the 

Privacy 
(2 ) No code of conduct formulated under sub -section (1) shall be binding on a data 

Commission. 
controller unless 

( a ) it has received the written approvalof the Chief Privacy Commissioner and at 
least two Privacy Commissioners; and 

(b ) it has received the approval,by signature of a director or authorised signatory, 
of the data controller. 

47. ( 1) The Privacy Commission may encourage data controllers and data processors Self- regulation 
to formulate professional codes of conduct to establish rules for the collection , storage, by data 
processing , disclosure or other handling of any personal data. 

controllers . 
(2 ) No code of conduct formulated under sub- section (1 ) shall be effective unless it is 
registered , in such form and manner as may be prescribed , by the Privacy Commission . 

( 3) The Privacy Commission shall, for reasons to be recorded in writing, not register 
any code of conduct formulated under sub - section (1) that is not adequate to protect personal 
data . 


48 . Any code of conduct formulated under this chapter shall be without prejudice to Co - regulation 
the jurisdiction , powers and functions of the Privacy Commission . 

and Self 
regulation 
without 

prejudice to 
CHAPTER VIII 

other 

remedies . 
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES 
49. (1) Whoever, exceptin conformity with the provisions of this Act, collects ,receives , Punishment 
stores , processes , discloses or otherwise handles any personal data shall be liable to fine for offences 

related to 
which may extend to one crore rupees : 

personal data . 
Provided that if the person commits the offence either intentionally , or with 
reckless disregard , he shall be liable for a term of imprisonmentwhich may extend upto 
three years, and shall also be liable to fine. 

(2 ) Whoever, except in conformity with the provisions of this Act, collects, receives , 
stores, processes, discloses or otherwise handles any sensitive personal data shall be liable 
to fine which may extend upto ten crore rupees: 

Provided that if the person committs the offence either intentionally , or with 
reckless disregard , he shall be liable for a term of imprisonment which may extend upto 
five years and shall also be liable to fine . 

50 . Whoever, except in conformity with the provisions of this Act, intercepts, or Punishment 
causes the interception of, any communication of another person shall be liable to a fine for offences 

related to 
which may extend upto one crore rupees: 

interception 
Provided that if the person commits the offence either intentionally, or with 

communication . 
reckless disregard , he shall be liable for a term of imprisonment extending upto three 
years, and shall also be liable to fine. 

51. Whoever, except in conformity with the provisions of this Act, orders or carries Punishment 
out, or causes the ordering or carrying out, of any surveillance of another person shall be 

for offences 

related to 
liable to a fine which may extend to ten crore rupees: 

surveillance. 


e . 


of 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Abetment and 
repeat 
offenders. 


Offences by 
companies . 


Provided that if the person commits the offence either intentionally, or with 
reckless disregard , shall be liable for a term of imprisonment extending upto five years, 
and shall also be liable to fine. 

52 . Whoever abets any offence punishable under this Act shall , if the act abetted is 
committed in consequence of the abetment, be punishable with the punishment provided for 
that offence. 

53 . (1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every 
person who , at the time of the offence was committed , was in charge of, and was responsible 
to , the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company 
shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and 
punished accordingly : 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub - section shall render any such person 
liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his 
knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of 
such offence. 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section ( 1), where any offence under 
this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been 
committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of 
any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, 
secretary or other officer shallbe deemed to be guilty of that offence , and shall be liable to be 
proceeded against and punished accordingly. 

54. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, the 
offences under this chapter shall be treated as cognizable and non -bailable . 

55 . Whoever,in any case in which a penalty is not expressly provided by this Act, fails 
to comply with any notice or order issued under any provisions thereof, including an order 
of the Chief Privacy Commissioner or otherwise contravenes any of the provisions of this 
Act, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one crore rupees, and , in the case of 
a continuing failure or contravention , with an additional fine which may extend upto ten lakh 
rupees for every day after the first during which he has persisted in such failure or 
contravention . 


Cognizance. 


General 
penalty . 


Punishment to 
be without 
prejudice to 
any other 
action . 


56 . The award of punishment for an offence under this Act shall be without prejudice 
to any other action which has been or which may be taken under this Act with respect to 
such contravention . 

CHAPTER IX 
MISCELLANEOUS 


Protection of 
action taken 
in good faith . 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties. 


57 . No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Government, State 
Government, Privacy Commission , Chief Privacy Commissioner, Privacy Commissioner or 
any person acting under the direction either of the Central Government, State Government, 
Privacy Commission , Chief Privacy Commissioner or Privacy Commissioner in respect of 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of 
any rules or any order made thereunder. 

58 . ( 1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the 
CentralGovernmentmay,by order , published in the Official Gazette ,make such provisions, 
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appears to it to be necessary or expedient 
for removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of 
a period of three years from the commencement of this Act. 

(2 ) Every ordermade under this section shall be laid , as soon asmay be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


Overriding 
effect. 


Power to 
make rules. 


59 . Subject to the provisions of the Schedule to this Act, the provisions of this Act 
shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other 
law for the timebeing in force . 

60 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules 
to carry out the provisions of this Act. 

(2 ) In particular , and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such 
rules may provide for 

(a ) the notification of theft , loss or damage under sub -section (4 ) of section 11 ; 
(b ) the notification of disclosure under sub - section ( 4) of section 13 ; 

(c) the application by an intelligence organisation under sub -section (2 ) of 
section 15 ; 

(d ) the application to intercept a communication under sub -section (1) of 
section 18 ; 

(e ) the application to renew an interception of communication under 
sub -section (2 ) of section 20 ; 

(f) the notification of an interception of communication under sub -section (1) of 
section 21 ; 

(g ) the application to not inform under sub -section (2 ) of section 21 ; 

(h ) the application to store information obtained as a result of any interception 
of communication under sub -section (2 ) of section 24 ; 

(i) the application to carry out surveillance under sub -section (3) of section 26 ; 
(j) notification to the general public under sub -section (2 ) of section 27 ; 
(k ) the application to renew surveillance under sub - section (2) of section 28 ; 
(1) the notification of surveillance under sub -section (1 ) of section 29 ; 
(m ) the application to not inform under sub - section (2 ) of section 29 ; 

(n ) the application to store information obtained as a result of surveillance under 
sub -section (2) of section 32 ; 

(0 ) salaries, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the Chief 
Privacy Commissioner, Privacy Commissioners , Secretaries and other members , staff 
and employees of the Privacy Commission ; 

(p ) procedure to be followed by the Privacy Commission ; 

( 9 ) powers and duties of Secretaries, officers and other employees of the Privacy 
Commission ; 

(r) the effective implementation of this Act. 
(3 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a period of thirty days which may 
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions and if before the expiry of the 
session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following, both Houses agree in 
making any modification in the rule , orboth Houses agree that the rule shuold not be made , 
the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such mofidied form or be of no effect, as the case 
may be , so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to 
the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


THE SCHEDULE 


1 . Statutes, provisions whereof, shall have to comply with the requirements of this 
Act 

(a ) Sections 43A , 69,69B ,72 and 72A ofthe Information Technology Act, 2000 

(b ) Sections 28 , 29, 30 , 31, 32 and 33 of the AADHAAR ( Targeted Delivery of 
Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 . 

(c ) Section 5( 2) of the Indian Telegraph Act , 1885 . 
(d ) Section 21 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 

(e ) The Census Act, 1948. 
2. Statutes, provisions whereof shall notbe required to comply with the provisions of 
this Act 


(a ) The Representation of the People Act, 1951 . 
(b ) The Right to Information Act , 2005 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Our country is at the threshold of a new technological revolution, marrying welfare 
with programmes of digitization for the quick and effective delivery of government services 
and benefits from various schemes . For this process, ranging from electronic banking to the 
transfer of subsidies, vast amounts of data are collected from our citizens , the integrity of 
which must be protected . This data can be used for seemingly innocuous purposes such as 
targeted advertising but also for provision of essential services such as ration , credit, 
insurance , and more , while unprotected and in the wrong hands, it could also cause damage 
to the interests of the individual. 


Beyond its commercialexploitation there is also an inherent equation of power when a 
person or entity possesses data and information concerning another individual or groups of 
individuals . Today, most such interactions are unregulated and put the users of internet and 
technological services at risk , and this risk will only grow with more and more digitization and 
as technological involvement in the delivery of services to citizens develops . 

Many concerns arise from the absence of a comprehensive data protection and privacy 
statute which provides rights to individuals in a data governed world . This has been 
recognized by past efforts of the Government of India notably by the Report of the Group of 
Experts on Privacy chaired by Justice A .P . Shah , Former Chief Justice , Delhi High Court. 
Drawing on the recommendations of this expert group , global best practices and also the 
unique factors that exist locally, this Data Privacy And Protection Bill aims to provide a 
comprehensive law to protect privacy and data collected from our citizens. 

This bill puts a person in control ofhis/her own data and further permits them to make 
an informed choice concerning its use . The Bill further provides an industry friendly model 
of co -regulation that aims to foster a higher degree of certainty for the private sector. The 
concerns of government are also sought to be addressed with a balanced provision for 
interception and access, making special provisions to safeguard the security of the State . 
The aims and objectives of the bill are sought to be implemented by an autonomous privacy 
commission . 

The Data Privacy and Protection Bill , 2017 aims to protect and promote our constitutional 
ideals in a networked , increasingly digitized society. 

Hence this Bill . 


SHASHI THAROOR 


NEW DELHI; 
July 2 , 2017 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 33 of this Bill provides for establishment of the Privacy Commission . It also 
provides for appointment of a Select Committee to fill vacancies in the Privacy Commission . 
Clause 34 provides for salaries and allowances payable to the Chief Privacy Commissioner 
and allowances or remuneration payable to the Privacy Commissioners. Clause 36 provides 
for constitution of an adhoc Committee to serve the functions of the Privacy Commission . 
Clause 37 provides for the appointment of a secretary, officers and other employees of the 
Privacy Commission . The Bill , therefore , if enacted , would involve expenditure from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure of about rupees six 
hundred crore per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure ofabout rupees one hundred and twenty five crore is also 
likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 60 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of this Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Bill No . 241 OF 2017 


A Bill to abolish the death penalty in India . 
Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Actmay be called the Death Penalty (Abolition ) Act, 2017 . 

Short title , 

extent and 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India , except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

commencement. 
( 3) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2 . Notwithstanding anything in the Indian Penal Code , 1860 or any other law for the Abolition of 
time being in force,no person convicted of any offence shall be punishable with the sentence death penalty . 
of death . 


45 of 1860 . 


66 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


45 of 1860 . 


Substitution of 3. ( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything in the Indian Penal Code , 1860 or any other law for the 
death sentence time being in force at the timeof commencement, the offences punishable with death sentence 
with Life 

shall be read and interpreted as Imprisonment for life . 
Imprisonment. 

Explanation . For the purposes of this section , the term Imprisonment for life’ shall 
mean imprisonment till the end of the natural life of the convict subject to provisions of 
section 433 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (2 of 1974 ). 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The death penalty is a dated form of retributive justice that is untenable with our 
historic traditions of non -violence and has no place in an India of the 21st century . On the 
contrary, it is a distraction from the needed strengthening of preventive and reformative 
models of our judicial systems. 

Article 21 of the Constitution of India guarantees every person the right to life and 
personal liberty , which cannot be deprived except through a procedure established by law , 
that is just, fair and reasonable. The sentencing of death is measured through the doctrine of 
the rarest of rare . 

Yet, the very nature of this doctrine lends itself to human bias and in turn , stands in 
stark contradiction with the previous tenet of a judgment beyond the scope of reasonable 
doubt. This has been noted on occasion by both the Supreme Court itself , as well as the Law 
Commission which concluded in its analysis of the death penalty in India , that the exercise of 
mercy powers under articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution , have failed to act as a bulwark 
against the miscarriage of justice in the imposition of the death penalty. The fact that lower 
courts award a significant number of death sentences, of which , only a fraction of these are 
confirmed by the Supreme Court , lends credence to the belief that the rarest ofrare doctrine 
has not been applied in spirit by lower courts. 

That a significant percentage of individuals who have been given this sentence hail 
from socio - economically vulnerable groups illustrate the larger implications of such bias. 
Further,the utility of capital punishment as a deterrent to crimeand terror stands effectively 
diminished given that comprehensive studies have statistically denied any correlation 
between rate of crime and death penalty. The existence of such a punishment also renders 
implausible any scope for reformation of a convict. 

The death penalty is untenable to the concept of a just and reasonable legal procedure, 
as the ends of justice in deterring criminal activity, is not served by the death penalty , more 
than the punishment of life imprisonment. The penological justifications for the death penalty 
are no longer valid , in light of the evolving jurisprudence and criminology, in favour of 
restorative justice, rather than justice motivated by retribution . 

Therefore, the death penalty remains an aberration in a healthy democracy and has in 
effect failed to fulfil the purpose it was designed to. Instead , it has reduced the State, the 
moral safeguard and gatekeeper of justice for the common citizen to a position of weakness , 
ignoring Mahatma Gandhi s prescient warning that an eye for an eye will make the world 
blind . Therefore, in the spirit of justice , fairness and immeasurable value of human life , this 
Bill seeks to abolish the sentence of death . 


Therefore , this Bill . 


SHASHI THAROOR 


NEW DELHI; 
November 27, 2017 . 


03 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Parl 


Bill No . 233 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the Code of 

Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


CHAPTER I 


PRELIMINARY 


Short title and 
commencement. 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the CriminalLaw ( Amendment) Act, 2017 . 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date , as the CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


CHAPTER II 


45 of 1860. 


AMENDMENTS TO THE INDIAN PENAL CODE , 1860 
2 . In section 354D of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, for sub -section (1 ), the following Amendment 

of section 
sub -section shall be substituted , namely : 

354D . 
" (1 ) Whoever 

(i) follows a person and contacts, or attempts to contact such person to foster 
personal interaction repeatedly despite a clear indication of disinterest by such person , 


or 


( ii ) monitors the use by a person of the internet, email or any other form of 
electronic communication , or 


(iii) watches or spies on a person , 
in a manner that results in a fear of violence or serious alarm or distress in the mind of 
such person , commits the offence of stalking : 


Provided that such conduct shall not amount to stalking if the person who pursued it 
proves that 


(i) it was pursued for the purpose of preventing or detecting crime and the 
person accused of stalking had been entrusted with the responsibility of prevention 
and detection of crime by the State ; or 

( ii ) it was pursued under any law or to comply with any condition or requirement 
imposed by any person under any law ; or 

(iii ) in the particular circumstances such conduct was reasonable and justified ." . 


CHAPTER III 


AMENDMENTS TO THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE , 1973 


3. In the First Schedule to the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 , under the heading Amendment 
" I-OFFENCES UNDER THE INDIAN PENAL CODE" , for the entries relating to sections of the First 

Schedule . 
354A , 354C and 354D the following entries shall be substituted , namely : 


5 


6 


" 354A 


Cognizable 


Non -bailable 


Any Magistrate 


Sexual 

Imprisonment which 
harassment of may extend to 3 
the nature of years or with fine or 
unwelcome with both . 
physical 
contact and 
advances or a 
demand or 
request for 
sexual 
favours , 
showing 
pornography. 


Cognizable 


Bailable 


Any Magistrate 


Sexual 

Imprisonment which 
harassment of may extend to 
the nature of 1 year or with fine or 
making 

with both . 
sexually 
coloured 
remark . 


70 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


1 


2 


4 


5 


3540 


Voyeurism 


Cognizable 


Non -bailable 


Any Magistrate 


Imprisonment of not 
less than 1 year but 
which may extend to 
3 years and with fine 
for first conviction . 


Non - bailable 


Any Magistrate 


Imprisonment of not Cognizable 
less than 3 years but 
which may extend to 
7 years and with fine 
for second or subsequent 
conviction . 


354D 


Stalking 


Cognizable 


Non -bailable 


Any Magistrate 


Imprisonment up to 
3 years and with fine 
for first conviction . 


Cognizable 


Non - bailable 


Any 
Magistrate ." . 


Imprisonment up to 
5 years and with fine 
for second or 
subsequent 
conviction . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Protection from sexual violence is a right guarantee specifically within the context of 
the right to life and personal liberty under article 21 of the Constitution of India . Key to this 
is the right to dignity, which has long been recognised as an integral part of the Constitution 
of India . 

The State is duty bound under the Constitution to enact legislation that protects 
women s safety against any threat, or suitably amend legislation that does not effectively 
address threats to a woman s safety and thereby their constitutionally guaranteed rights of 
safety and dignity, as laid down by the Supreme Court in Vishakha Vs State of Rajasthan . 

The offences of sexual harassment, voyeurism and stalking are crimes with serious 
repercussions . However, the bailable nature of these offences, often leads to the accused 
obtaining bail without serious judicial scrutiny regarding the risk that the accused may pose 
to the complainants and the likelihood of the accused attempting to intimidate complainants 
and witnesses or commit further offences against them . Courts are not expected to grant bail 
to accused persons who may vitiate the right of the complainant to seek justice . Therefore , 
it is inconsistent with the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court and the underlying logic of the 
dichotomybetween bailable and non -bailable offences, for such offences to remain as bailable 
offences. 

The fluid nature of the system of bail in these cases effectively also serves as a strong 
deterrent for women across the country to report these specific crimes in the first place, out 
of fear of the repercussions it would entail. However, if these laws are suitably amended, it 
would encourage women from across the demographic , social and economic divide to rise up 
and speak out against these crimes with fortitude. 

The Bill is therefore a progressive step forward to ensuring that women in our country 
can lead dignified and empowered lives , a fulfilment of their constitutionally guaranteed 
right to life and personal liberty . 

Therefore , this Bill . 


SHASHI THAROOR 


NEW DELHI; 
November 27 , 2017 . 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 78 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Cinematograph Act, 1952 . 


Short title and 
commencement. 


Amendment 
of section 4 . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
1. (1) This Actmay be called the Cinematograph ( Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2. In section 4 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the 37 of 1952. 
principal Act ), — 

(a ) in sub -section ( 1), clause ( iii) shall be omitted ; and 
(b ) after sub -section ( 2 ), the following sub - section shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( 3 ) No person apart from the Board shall sanction films for public 
exhibition ." . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


3 . In section 5B of the principal Act, for sub - section (2 ), the following sub -section Amendment of 
shall be substituted , namely : 

section 5B . 
" (2) Subject to the provisions contained in sub -section ( 1), the Board shall 
exercise its power to certify a film for public exhibition in accordance with the guidelines 
mentioned in Schedule I." . 


4 . In section 5C of the principal Act in sub - section ( 1 ), clause ( e ) shall be omitted . 


Amendment of 
section 5C . 


5. Section 6 of the principalAct shall be omitted . 


Omission of 
section 6 . 


ect10 


13 . 


6 . In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub -section ( 1 ), for the words " likely to cause a Amendment of 
breach of the peace , by order, suspend the exhibition of the film ", the words " likely to cause 
a breach of public order , despite taking reasonable measures to prevent the same, by order, 
suspend the exhibition of the film " shall be substituted . 


of 


7 . After Part IV of the principal Act, the following Schedule shall be inserted , — 

" SCHEDULE I 


Insertion 
Schedule I. 


PART I 


OBJECTIVE OF GUIDELINES 
1. These guidelines shall ensure that , 

(a) Children and adults are protected from potentially harmful or otherwise unsuitable 
content; 


(b ) Audiences, particularly parents and those with responsibility for children , are 
empowered to make informed viewing decisions ; 

(c ) Artistic expression and creative freedom are not unduly curbed in the process of 
classification of films; 


(d ) The process of certification by Board is responsive , at all times , to social change . 


PART II 


CATEGORY OF CERTIFICATION 
2 . Certification of a film by the Board shall be in the following categories 
(a) U — film suitable for all persons, regardless of age, and is often family friendly ; 

(b ) U / A 12 + — film suitable for persons above twelve years of age or for a person 
under the age of twelve with parental guidance; 

(c) U /A 15 + — film suitable for persons (adolescents) above fifteen years or for a 
person under the age of fifteen with parental guidance ; 

(d ) A — film suitable for public exhibition , but restricted to adults; 

(e) C (A with Caution ) — film restricted for adults with the specific purpose of cautioning 
them that it has more than a reasonable amount of content such as violence, sex , nudity , 
drugs and other related contents ; 


(f) s — film restricted to viewership by members of a profession or any class of persons , 
having regard to the nature, content and theme of the film . 

PART III 


GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR CLASSIFICATION OF FILMS 
3. There are general factors that may influence a classification decision at any level 
and in connection with any issue. The following factors, and the intention of the filmmaker 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


vis-a -vis the same, are of particular importance when a film or video is a borderline case 
between two stages categories , and are to be read with Part IV of the Guidelines. 

(a ) Context: 

The Board shall ensure that a film is examined in the light of the period depicted 
in the film and the contemporary standards of the country and the people to which the 
film relates to . Therefore , the context in which an issue is presented within a film or 
video shall be given consideration . Factors such as the setting of a work (historical, 
fantasy, realistic and contemporary ), the manner of presentation of the film , the apparent 
intention of the film , the original production date of the work , and any special merits of 
the work may influence the classification of films. 

(6 ) Theme: 

Classification of films shall take into account the theme of a work , but shall 
depend significantly on the treatment of that theme, and especially the sensitivity of 
its presentation . The most challenging themes (for example, drug misuse , violence , 
paedophilia , sex , racial or communal hatred or violence ) are unlikely to be appropriate 
at the most junior levels of classification . 

(c) Tone and Impact: 

The Board shall ensure that a film is judged in its entirety from the point of view 
of its overall impact. The tone of the film may be an important factor in deciding the 
influence it may have on various groups of people. Thus, films that have a dark and 
unsettling tone may receive a higher classification . Other tonal considerations that 
might have an influence on classification include the extent to which the film presents 
a view of the world that in anti-life, pessimistic , or despairing or the extent to which 
transgressive or harmful behaviour is condoned or made to appear normal. 

(d ) Target Audience : 

The classification of the film shall also depend upon the target audience of the 
work and the impact of such work on such audience . 

PART IV 


CATEGORIZATION GUIDELINES 
4 . This part of Guidelines provides the specific approach the Board shall take for 
various categories of certification from U to A - C . 

(a ) U 


Films classified as U shall be suitable for all audiences of all ages, set within a 
positive framework and should offer reassuring counterbalances to any violence, 
threat or horror and shall take into account : 

(i) Discrimination - Discriminatory language or behaviour shall not be 
acceptable unless clearly disapproved of in the film ; 

( ii) Psychotropic Substances, Liquor, Smoking , Tobacco - References to 
illegal drugs, or misuse of drugs, cigarettes, liquor shall be infrequent and 
innocuous, or have a clear educational purpose or anti-drug message suitable 
for young children ; 

(iii ) Imitable behaviour — Potentially dangerous or anti - social behaviour 
which young children may copy shall be clearly disapproved of and no emphasis 
on realistic or easily accessible weapons such as knives shall be made thereto ; 


(iv ) Language - Infrequent use only of very mild offensive language ; 

(v) Nudity — The work may have infrequent nudity but with no sexual 
context ; 

(vi) Six — The work may have only very mild sexual behaviour such as 
kissing , and references to such behaviour ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


(vii) Fear, Threat & Horror - Scary or potentially unsettling sequences 
should be mild ,brief , and unlikely to cause undue anxiety to young children and 
the outcome should be reassuring ; and 

(viii ) Violence - Violence should generally be very mild and acceptable if 
it is justified by context (for example , comedic animated ,wholly unrealistic . 
(b ) U /A - 12 + 

Films classified as U / A - 12 + shall not unsettle a child aged around twelve or 
older. Unaccompanied children of any age may watch , but parents are advised to 
consider whether the content may upset younger, or more sensitive children taking 
into account: 

(i) Discrimination — Discriminatory language or behaviour shall not be 
acceptable unless clearly disapproved of, or in an educational or historical context, 
or in a particularly dated work with no likely appeal to children . Discrimination 
by a character with whom children may readily identify is unacceptable ; 

( ii ) Psychotropic Substances, Liquor, Smoking, Tobacco — References 
to illegal drugs, or misuse of drugs, cigarettes , liquor shall be infrequent and 
innocuous, or have a clear educational purpose or anti- drug message suitable 
for young children ; 

( iii ) Imitable behaviour — No detail of potentially dangerous behaviour 
that young children are likely to copy, if that behaviour is presented as safe or 
fun . No glamorization of realistic or easily accessible weapons such knives. No 
focus on anti - social behaviour which children are likely to copy ; 

(iv ) Language — Infrequentmild offensive language use only , provided 
that the theme calls for the same; 

( v) Nudity — There may be nudity with no sexual context; 

( vi) Sex — Sexual activity may be implied, but shall be discreet and 
infrequent.Mild sex references and innuendos only ; 

(vii ) Fear, Threat & Horror — Frightening sequences or situations where 
characters are in danger shall not be prolonged or intense and fantasy settings 
may be a mitigating factor; and 

(viii) Violence — Violence will usually be mild . However, there may be 
moderate violence, withoutdetail ,if justified by its context ( for example, history , 
comedy or fantasy ). 
(c ) U / A - 15 + 

Films classified as U /A - 15 + contain material that is generally not suitable for 
children aged under fifteen but may be viewed by adolescents . No one younger than 
fifteen may see a U / A - 15 + film in a cinema unless accompanied by an adult. Adults 
planning to take a child under fifteen to view a U / A - 15 + film shall consider whether the 
film is suitable for that child taking into account: 

(i) Discrimination — Discriminatory language or behaviour shall not be 
endorsed by the work as a whole. Aggressive discriminatory language or 
behaviour shall not be acceptable unless clearly condemned ; 

( ii ) Psychotropic Substances, Liquor, Smoking , Tobacco — Misuse of 
drugs, cigarettes, liquor, shall be infrequent and shall not glamorized or give 
instructional detail ; 

(iii ) Imitable behaviour — No promotion of potentially dangerous 
behaviour which children are likely to copy. No glamorization of realistic or 
easily accessible weapons such as knives; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(iv) Language — There may be moderate language. Abuse , vulgar and 
sadistic expression may be permitted , depending on the manner in which it is 
used , who is using the language , its frequency within the work as a whole and 
any special justification ; 

(v) Nudity — There may be nudity, but very discreet sexual context; 

(vi) Sex — Sexual activity may be discreetly portrayed . Moderate sex 
references are permitted , provided that they have a place in the context of the 
narrative of the film ; 

(vii ) Fear, Threat & Horror — There may be moderate physical and 
psychological fear inducing and horror sequences . Although some scenes may 
be disturbing , the overall tone should not be so . Horror sequences shall not be 
frequent or sustained ; 

(viii) Violence — Theremay bemoderate violence but it shall not dwell on 
detail. There shall be no emphasis on injuries or blood , but occasional gory 
moments may be permitted if justified by context. Sexual violence may only be 
implied or briefly , and discreetly indicated , and its depiction shall be justified by 
context; 
(d ) A 

Films classified as A are suitable only for persons of the age of eighteen years 
and above taking into account: 

(i) Discrimination — While there may be discriminatory themes and 
languages in the film , the film as a whole shall not endorse or glorify 
discriminatory language or behavour; 

( ii ) Psychotropic Substances, Liquor, Smoking, Tobacco — Imbibing of 
these elements may be shows, but the work as a whole shall not promote or 
encourage misuse of the same. The misuse of easily accessible and highly 
dangerous substances (for example , aerosols or solvents) is not acceptable; 

(iii) Imitable behaviour — Dangerous behaviour ( for example , committing 
suicide or inflicting self-harm ) shall not be shown in detail that could be copied 
by others. Context, realism and setting shall determine the acceptability of 
depiction of easily accessible weapons; 

(iv ) Language — Very strong language , including abuse and vulgar words 
is permitted ; 

(v ) Nudity — There may be nudity, even in a sexual context, but without 
explicit detail ; 

(vi ) Sex - Sexual activity may be portrayed but without strong detail. 
References to sexual behaviour is permitted , but very strong reference can only 
be justified in context. Works whose primary purpose is sexual arousal or 
stimulation is not acceptable ; 

( vii) Fear, Threat & Horror — There may be strong threat and horror. A 
sustained focus on sadistic or sexual threat is not acceptable; 

(viii) Violence — Strong violence is permitted , but explicit gory images are 
not acceptable . Strong sadistic violence is not acceptable , there may be detailed 
verbal references to sexual violence but the depiction of sexual violence must be 
discreet and justified by context. 
(2) A -C 

(i) Films categorizes as A -C are suitable only for adults above the age of 
18 years, with the caution that the film has more than a reasonable amount of 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


content falling under restricted categories such as violence , sex , nudity and 
drugs ; 

(ii) Filmsunder this category shall not qualify for certification in the event 
of the following 

(1 ) Where the material is in breach of criminal law , or has been 
created though the commission of a criminal offence ; 

(2) Where material or treatment appears to the Board to risk harm to 
individuals ; 

For example , the detailed portrayal of violent or dangerous acts , or 
of illegal use of psychotropic substances, which may cause of public harm 
or morals. Other examples may include portrayals of sadistic or sexual 
violence that make this violence looking appealing; reinforce the 
suggestion that victims enjoy sexual violence; or films that invite viewer 
complicity in sexual violence or other harmful violent activities ; 

( 3) Where the work is pornographic in nature and or compromises 
explicit sexual activity or dialogue that is non -contextual in nature .However, 
any sexually explicit material for educational purposes shall be allowed ; 

(4 ) Where the work involves sadistic or sexual violence with children ; 

(5 ) Where the work , including its dialogues , are likely to encourage 
an interest in sexually abusive activity which may include adults role 

playing as non - adults . 
(A) S 

Films categorized as S are meant for viewership for members of a profession or 
any class of persons, having regard to the nature , content and theme of the film , fall 
under this category. 

PARTV 

CLASSIFICATION OF A FILM BY BOARD 
5. (i) When an applicant producer or distributor submits the final cut of the film to the 
Board , he shall specify his target audience and the classification sought. If the Board is of 
the view that the film can be certified by them as per the preceding guidelines for certification , 
the Board shall inform the producer/distributor about the likely classification the work will 
receive and reasons for such decision . 

( ii ) If the applicant producer /distributor does not accept a particular classification 
given to its film , he shall have the liberty to effect changes to the film and resubmit the same 
to the Board for achieving the desired category. 

(iii ) The Board shall not propose or make any cuts, revisions or modifications to the 
film to meet any of the classification categories . 

(iv) The Board may , in the event that it is of the view that the film does not merit 
classification under any category in accordance with the Guidelines contained herein , refuse 
to accord certification under any of the above categories, and record its reasons in writing 
for such decision . 

(v) The Board shall, while refusing the certification , communicate the reasons for so 
doing to the applicant producer or distributor and due opportunity shall be given to him to 
be heard before such an order is passed , in which reasons for refusal of certification shall be 
recorded in detail by the concerned authority: 

Provided that the applicant shall be given a period of fifteen days, from the date of 
communication of reasons , to respond and submit his argument in favour of the classification 
sought." . 


18 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The freedom of speech and expression guaranteed to all citizens of India under article 
19 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution of India is a fundamental basis for themanifestation of all forms 
of liberties. 

Artistic freedom is an essential part of the freedom of speech and expression , the 
pursuit of art is integral to the cultural development of our country . Artists, particularly film 
makers should have a wide scope of freedom to express their various ideas and skills . The 
State may regulate artistic freedom only under the grounds enumerated under article 19 ( 2 ) of 
the Constitution , not due to disagreement with the content of the film . 

The exceptions to the freedom of speech and expression must be interpreted and read 
in a strict and narrow manner. The power to regulate cinemamust be exercised in exceptional 
situations, and only due to an overriding compelling public interest. 

The pre-censorship powers of the Central Board of Film Certification and the revisional 
powers of the Union Government constitute a paternalistic policy , which is incompatible 
with the polity of a mature democracy . Themandate of the Central Board of Film Certification 
should be strictly confined to the certification of films. The power to certify a film should rest 
exclusively with the Central Board of Film Certification and should not be supplanted by 
another entity . The power to certify a film should notbe exercised in an arbitrary fashion , but 
in accordance with reasonable statutory guidelines . 

The State has the positive mandate to uphold the space for free speech as guaranteed 
by the Constitution , and ensure strict action is taken against lawless elements which try to 
disrupt the free flow of cinematic expression . The State should only resort to the power of 
suspension of filmsas a last resort in order to maintain public order, after taking all necessary 
steps to prevent the disruption of public order. It is necessary that these principles are 
reflected in the Cinematograph Act, 1952 . 

Hence, this Bill. 


SHASHI THAROOR 


NEW DELHI; 
January , 30 , 2018. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


BILL No. 180 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the constitution of a Board for the conservation of archaeological 

and natural heritage and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 

WHEREAS the United Nations Educational Scientific and Archaeological Organization 
Convention concerning the Protection of the World Archaeological and Natural Heritage 
was held in Paris in 1972 , which India ratified in 1977 to ensure effective and active measures 
for protection , conservation and presentation of the archaeological and natural heritage 
situated on the territory of each State Party ; 

AND WHEREAS , it is expedient and necessary to enact a law for the purpose of 
implementing the decisions to take appropriate legal, scientific , technical, administrative and 
financial measures necessary for the identification , protection , conservation , presentation 
and rehabilitation of archaeological and natural heritage . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Archaeological and Natural Heritage Conservation Short title , 
Act, 2017 . 

extent and 


commencement. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definition . 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2 . (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

( a ) Board means the Archaeological and NaturalHeritage Conservation Board 
constituted under section 3 ; 

(b ) Convention means the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
Archaeological Organization Convention concerning the Protection of the World 
Archaeological and NaturalHeritage held in Paris in 1972 and ratified by India in 1977; 
(c ) ArchaeologicalHeritage includes the following: - 

(i) ancient monument and archaeological sites and remains defined in 
clauses (a ) and (d ), respectively, of section 2 of the Ancient Monuments and 
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 ; 

(ii) monuments, that is to say , architecturalworks, works of monumental 
sculpture and painting, elements or structures of an archaeological nature , 
inscriptions, cave dwelling and combinations of features,which are of outstanding 
universal value from the point of view of history , art or science ; 

(iii ) groups of buildings , groups of separate or connected buildings which , 
because of their architecture, homogeneity or their place in the landscape, are of 
outstanding universal value from the point of view of history , art or science ; 

( iv ) sites, that is to say , works ofman or the combined works of nature and 
man , and areas including archaeological sites which are of outstanding universal 
value from the historical, aesthetic, ethnological or anthropological point of 
view ; 
(d ) " naturalheritage" includes , 

(i) natural sites or precisely delineated natural areas which are of 
outstanding value from the point of view of science, conservation or natural 
beauty ; 

( ii) geological and physiographical formations and precisely delineated 
area which constitute the habitat of threatened species of animals and plants 
and are of outstanding value from the point of view of science or conservation ; 

(iii ) natural features consisting of physical and biological formations or 
groups of such formations, which are of outstanding value from the aesthetic or 
scientific point of view ; and 


(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
(2 ) The words and expressions used in this Act but not defined herein and defined in 
the AncientMonuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 or the Indian Penal 24 of 1958 

45 of 1860 
Code, 1860 or the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 shall have the samemeaning , respectively , 3 of 1974 

assigned to them in those Acts. 
Constitution 

3. (1 ) The Central Government, shall , by notification in the OfficialGazette , constitute 
of the 

a Board to be known as the Archaeological and Natural Heritage Conservation Board for 
Archaeological 

" carrying out the purposes of this Act. 
Heritage 
Conservation (2 ) The Board shall consist of, — 
Board . 

(a ) a Chairperson to be appointed by the Central Government, from amongst the 
persons having such knowledge and experience, as may be prescribed ; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Functions of 
the Board . 


(b ) fourteen other members to be appointed by the Central Government from 
amongst the persons who have knowledge and experience in the field of archaeology , 
history , architecture , conservation , science and technology, environment science , town 
and country planning or public administration : 

Provided that the Chairperson and themembers of the Board shall be appointed 
in consultation with the Leaders of Opposition of both the Houses of Parliament. 

(3) The Chairperson and every member of the Board shall hold office for a period of 
five years from the date on which he enters upon his office . 

( 4 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and the other terms and conditions of 
service of the Chairperson and the members of the Board shall be such as may be prescribed . 

(5 ) The terms and conditions of the office , including the method of filling casual 
vacancies in the Board , and the procedure for removal or disqualification of the Chairperson 
or a member of the Board , shall be such as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the 
OfficialGazette , specify. 

(6 ) The Board may, with the approval of the Central Government, make regulations for 
regulating its own procedure. 

(7) The Board shall have a Secretariat consisting of such number of officers and 
employees as may be prescribed . 

(8 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and the other terms and conditions of 
service of, the officers and employees of the secretariat shall be such as may be prescribed . 
4 . The Board shall 

(i) To monitor the implementation of obligations under the Convention and 
issue such directions as it may consider necessary and expedient for the effective 
implementation of such obligations ; 

(ii) To advise to the Central Government on identification , safe -keeping, 
conservation and preservation of archaeological heritage and natural heritage ; 

( iii ) To issue such directions as it considers necessary to ensure safety, security, 
conservation and management of archaeological heritage and natural heritage ; 

(iv ) to cause or undertake an inquiry and initiate legal action in consultation with 
the Central Government, in case of offences relating to archaeological heritage and 
natural heritage sites; 

(v ) to take such measures as it may consider necessary for implementation of the 
provisions of this Act; and 

(vi) to undertake such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Central 
Government for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 
5 . Whoever 

(i) damages or causes any damage to archaeological heritage or natural heritage 
site ; or 

( ii )indulges in any propaganda with the intention of causing any damage to as 
archaeological heritage or natural heritage site ; or 

( iii) commits any offence under section 30 of the Ancient Monuments and 
Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 ; or 

(iv ) commits or omits to commit any act in relation to archaeological heritage or 
natural heritage sites , which is an offence under any other law for the time being in 

force ; 
shall be guilty of committing an offence under this Act. 


Offences. 


24 of 1958 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


= 


Punishment. 


6 . Any person who commits any offence under section 5 shall be punishable with 
rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years , or with fine, which may 
extend to one lakh rupees, or with both . 

7 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force , 
proceedings of committing an offence under this Actmay be instituted after the expiry of the 
period of limitation . 


Proceedings 
after the 
expiry of the 
period of 
limitation . 


8 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force , an 
offence punishable under this Act shall be deemed to be a cognizable offence . 


An offence 
under the Act 
to be a 
cognizable 
offence . 


Every person 
holding a civil 
post to assist 
the Board . 


9 . It shall be the duty of every person holding a civil post in connection with the affairs 
of the Union or a State to assist the Board in discharge of its functions. 


Act to have 
overriding 
effect . 


10 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force. 


Provisions of 
the Act to be 
in addition to 
other laws. 


11 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to , and not in derogation of , any 
other law for the timebeing in force . 


Annual report. 


12 . (1 ) The Board shall prepare an annual report, in such form and manner, as may be 
prescribed . 

(2) The Board shall submit the annual report to the CentralGovernment . 

( 3) The annual report shall be laid by the Central Government, as soon as may be after 
it is received , before each House of Parliament: 


Provided that the Board may also submit interim report or reports to the Central 
Government, which shall cause the report to be laid , as soon as may be after it is received , 
before each House of Parliament. 


Power to 
make rules . 


13 . (1 ) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should notbe made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO ) in its 
17th General Assembly meeting on 16th November, 1972 adopted a Convention relating to 
the conservation of World Archaeological and Natural Heritage. India has ratified this 
convention on 14th November, 1977 . Hence , it is in our own interest to implement this 
convention and enact a law to give effect to the provisions of the Convention . For the 
conservation of Archaeological Heritage, a suitable mechanism for vigilance and monitoring 
is needed . These purposes would be better served if a Board to be known as the Archaeological 
and Natural Heritage Conservation Board is set up to work as a watchdog agency for the 
conservation , upkeep and maintenance of the archaeological heritage and natural heritage 
sites in the country. 

The terms archaeological heritage and natural heritage have been given a very 
comprehensive meaning to include all archaeological and natural heritage, provided for in 
the Convention and the terms also cover the ancient monuments and archaeological sites 
and remains defined in the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains 
Act, 1958 . 


Our archaeological and natural heritage sites are vulnerable even now . We all know 
that people who visit such sites are not sensitive enough to try and keep such sites well 
maintained . It is a common practice to deface our monuments by inscribing names on them . 
There have also been other cases of vandalism against ourarchaeological and natural heritage 
sites. Keeping in view the increasing number of crimes against such sites, there is a need to 
provide for punitive action for such crimes . 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. 
Hence this Bill . 


KAVITHA KALVAKUNTLA 


NEW DELHI; 
July 26 , 2017 . 


84 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of a Archaeological and Natural 
Heritage Conservation Board for the conservation of the Archaeological sites in the country. 
The Bill, therefore, if enacted ,will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . 
It is likely to involve a recurring expenditure of rupees one hundred crore per annum . 

A non - recurring expenditure of rupees one hundred and fifty crores is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUMREGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 3 of the Bill empowers the Board to make regulation for regulating its own. 
Clause 13 empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out the purposes of 
the Bill. Thematters in respect of which rules and regulations may be made are matters of 
administrative details and procedure and , as such , the delegation of legislative power is of a 
normal character. 


As the rules and regulations will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


85 


Bill No. 15 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Short title and 
commencement. 


IIIA . 


2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 , after Chapter III, the following Chapter shall Insertion of 
be inserted , namely : 

new Chapter 
" CHAPTER IIIA 
CLINICAL TRIALS OF DRUGS 


15A . (1) The CentralGovernment shall , by notification in the Official Gazette , constitute Constitution of 
a Board to be known as the Clinical Trials Accreditation Board which consists of the following Accreditation 

Board . 
members , namely : 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(a ) Secretary to the Government of India ,Ministry of Health and Family Welfare , 
DepartmentofHealth and Family Welfare — Chairperson , ex -officio ; 


(b ) Directors of all All- India Institutes of Medical Sciences — Members,ex -officio ; 


( c ) Director -General of Health Services , DirectoratreGeneral of Health Services , 
New Delhi — Members , ex -officio ; 


(d ) Director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research , 
Chandigarh - Member, ex - officio ; 


(e ) Director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research , 
New Delhi — Member, ex officio ; and 


(A) Director, Jawaharlal Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research , 
Puducherry — Member, ex -officio ; 


(2 ) The Accreditations Board shall accredit investigators and trial sites for conduct of 
clinical trial of drugs. 


(3 ) The Accreditation Board shall appoint a Registrar to maintain a registry of clinical 
trials and their outcomes. 


(4 ) The Accreditation Board shall constitute a Committee of Experts to examine 
applications for conduct of clinical trials by accredited investigators. 


Conduct of 
clinical trials. 


( 5 ) The Accreditation Board shall appoint such officers and staff as are necessary for 
discharge of its functions under this Act. 

15B . (1) A clinical trial shall be conducted only by an accredited investigator entity at 
an accredited trial site . 

(2 ) An accredited investigator shall apply to the Committee of Experts for permission 
to conduct clinical trials . 

(3) Each such application shall be examined by the Committee of Experts,with special 
reference to , but without prejudice to examination of any other aspect that may be relevant, 
the possibility of serious adverse consequences for human subjects, existence of free and 
informed consent of human subjects and the provisions for adequate compensation in the 
case of any injury or adverse effect on such subjects due to the clinical trial. 

(4 ) The Committee of Experts shall give its decision on an application for clinical trial 
within sixty days: 

Provided that the Accreditation Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing , 
reverse the decision of the Committee of Experts within a period of ten days from the 
date of decision of the Committee of Experts . 

15C . Every human subject participating in a clinical trial shall be informed about the 
entire procedure of clinical trial and the possible adverse effects of such trial on his health : 

Provided that unless an application for clinical trial is accompanied by a 
declaration of free and informed consentmade by such human subject, no permission 
for clinical trial shall be granted. 

15D . Every human subject participating in a clinical trial or his legal heirs, as the case 
may be, shall be paid adequate monetary compensation in the case of any adverse effect on 
his health during the course of a clinical trial or as an after-effect of the trial: 


Informed 
consent. 


Compensation. 


Pro 


Provided that in the case of death of the human subject or a serious adverse 
effect on his health causing permanent disability , the compensation shall not be less 
than ten lakh rupees . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


87 


15E . ( 1) Whoever, himself or by any other person on his behalf , conducts clinical trial Penalty for 
of drugs without obtaining permission under section 15B , shall be punished with imprisonment 

conducting 

clinical trial 
for a term which shall not be less than three years and shall also be liable to fine which shall 

without 
not be less than twenty lakh rupees. 

permission . 
( 2 ) Whoever, himself or by any other person on his behalf, conducts clinical trial 
without obtaining permission and such trial causes grievous hurt or death of trial participant, 
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but 
which may extend to eight years and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than 
thirty lakh rupees. 

(3) The fine imposed under this section shall be paid to the trial participant or, as the 
case may be, his legal heirs. 

15F . Whoever, having been convicted of an offence under section 15E is again convicted Penalty for 
under that section , shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less repeat 
than ten years and shall also be liable to fine which shall not be less than fifty lakh rupees. offence. 

15G . Whoever , responsible to provide compensation for clinical trial related injury or Penalty for 
death under this Chapter fails to do so , shall be punished with imprisonment which may failure to 
extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than twice the amount of the pl 

provide 

compensation . 
compensation . 

15H . Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company , every Offences by 
person who at the time the offence was committed , was in charge of, and was responsible to , companies. 
the company, for the conduct of business of the company, as well as the company, shall be 
deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable to the proceeded against and 
punished accordingly : 


Provided that nothing in this sub -section shall render any such person liable to 
any punishment provided in this Act, if he proves that the offence was committed 
without his knowledge or that he exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of 
such offence . 


Explanation. For the purpose of this section 

(i) " Company " means any body corporate and include a firm or other association 
of individuals ; and 


( ii ) " director" , in relation to a firm , means a partner in the firm ." . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
India has been a major target for investigators seeking human subjects for clinical 
trials of drug both by multi-national corporations as well as Indian pharmaceutical companies. 
The high mortality rates and serious adverse effects on the health of human subjects have 
often been considered indicative of the fact that human subjects in clinical trials are being 
treated as guinea pigs in India . The fact that in many cases no compensation is paid and , 
even where it is paid , it is notsufficient relative to the injury suffered by the human participant 
due to the clinical trial, shows the lack of sensitivity for such cases . 


In view of the above , the Bill seeks to make the following amendments in the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act, 1940 — 

(i) providing for establishment of an Accreditation Board for granting 
accreditation to investigators (who will conduct trials ) and trials sites (which can be a 
hospital or other place where the trial will be conducted ); 

(ii) constitution of a Committee of Experts to examine applications for clinical 
trials ; 

( iii ) appointment of a Registrar for keeping registry of clinical trials and their 
outcomes ; 


(iv) providing for mandatory free and informed consent from human subjects 
participating in clinical trials and provision of adequate compensation for injuries or 
death due to such trials ; and 

(v ) providing for punishment for conduct of clinical trials without permission 
and for failure to provide compensation . 

Hence this Bill . 


KAVITHA KALVAKUNTLA 


NEW DELHI; 
December 18 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 2 ofthe Bill provides for constitution of an Accreditation Board , a Committee of 
Experts, and appointment of a Registrar and other officers and staff of the Accreditation 
Board . The Bill, therefore , if enacted ,would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund 
of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure about rupees seven crore will be involved 
per annum . 


A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees thirty crore is also likely to be involved . 


90 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 58 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the reservation in posts and services of the CentralGovernment 
and Public Sector Undertakings for kapu community with a view to improving 
their living standard and extending them the benefits of progress made by 

the country after independence and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. This Act may be called the Reservation in Posts and Services for Kapu Community 
of Andhra Pradesh Act, 2018 . 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " kapu " means the people belonging to the Telaga , Kapu , Ontari , Balija 
communities of the State of Andhra Pradesh ; and 


Short title. 


Definitions. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


(b ) " establishment" means an establishment which is owned , established , 
controlled ,managed or financed by the Central Government and includes 

(i) a Ministry or department or subordinate office or attached office of the 
Central Government; 

( ii ) a public sector undertaking or statutory authority constituted under 
any Central Act; 

( iii ) a corporation in which not less than fifty -one per cent. of the paid -up 
share capital is held by the Central Government; 

(iv) a Government company as defined under clause (45 ) of section 2 of 
the Companies Act, 2013; and 

(v ) an autonomous body, organisation or institution receiving grant or aid 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . 
3. There shall be reserved such percentage of posts , not below five per cent. of total 
posts in every establishment, for the persons belonging to kapu community . 


18 of 2013 . 


Reservation 
of posts in 
establishments 
for persons 
belonging to 
Kapu 
community . 


ars 


4 . ( 1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions, not remo 

difficulty . 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for 
removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall bemade after the expiry of the period of three years 
from the date of commencement of this Act. 

(2 ) Every ordermade under sub -section (1 ) shall be laid before each House of Parliament. 

5 . The provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall have effect Power to 
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time make rules . 
being in force or anything contained in any judgment of any court of law contrary to it 
including judgment regarding ceiling on reservation . 

6 . (1 ) The CentralGovernment may, by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules Act to have 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

over-riding 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon asmay be after it is made before 
each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be 
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions and if , before the expiry of 
the session immediately following the session or successive sessions aforesaid both Houses 
agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be 
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the 
case may be ; so however,that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice 
to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


effect. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The British Government in Madras Presidency had recognized Kapus as backward 
caste in 1915 and also included in the backward classes list of Andhra region . With the 
formation of the State of Andhra Pradesh on 1st October, 1953 , a list of Backward Classes as 
existed in the Composite Madras State was adopted with slightmodifications and the Kapus 
continued to enjoy the status of backward classes. In 1956 , the then Andhra Pradesh 
Government omitted Kapus from the backward classes list. Again , though the successive 
Government tried to recognize them as other backward classes through a Government Order, 
the High Court struck down the Order on technical grounds . 

There was a long standing demand for the inclusion of Kapu sub -castes i.e., Telaga . 
Kapu , Ontari and Balija into the Backward Classes category . On the basis of an expert advice 
of the Andhra Pradesh State Backward Classes Commission that Kapu community be given 
reservation in appointments and educational institutions in view of their social, economic 
and educational backwardness, the State Government came to a conclusion that there is 
every need for inclusion of Kapus into the Backward Classes category for their upliftment 
and all round advancement and passed a legislation to that effect. The need is to include the 
Kapu community in the Central list of backward classes in respect of the State of 
Andhra Pradesh to extend the benefits of reservation to them . 


The Bill , therefore , seeks to provide for the reservation in posts and services of the 
Central Government and Public Sector Undertakings for persons belonging to Kapu 
community with a view to improve their living standard and extending the benefits of 
reservation to them which are available to persons belonging to other backward classes. 


Hence this Bill. 


MUTHAMSETTI SRINIVASARAO 


NEW DELHI; 
January 18 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 6 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character . 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 61 OF 2018 
A Bill to provide for the use of official language in the proceedings of the 
Supreme Court and the High Courts and certain other provisions and 

for matters connected therewith . 
Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
Short title and 1. (1) This Act may be called the Supreme Court and the High Courts (Use of Official 
commencement. Languages and Other Provisions ) Act, 2018. 

(2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by a notification 

in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 
Definitions. 

2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - 


(a ) " appointed day " means the date as may be notified by the appropriate 
Government for the purposes of this Act; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


(b ) " appropriate Government" means 

(i) in relation to the Supreme Court and High Court of NCT of Delhi, the 
Central Government; and 


(ii) in relation to the High Court of a State , the Government of that State ; 
(c ) "document" means document as defined in section 3 of the Indian Evidence 
Act, 1872 ; 


1 of 1872 . 


(d ) " High Court" means any Court as defined in clause ( 14 ) of article 366 , or 
established under article 231 of the Constitution and includes its benches ; 

(e) " official language" means the official language of the Union under article 343 
of the Constitution and includes the language in use for official purposes in any State 
in which the High Court for that State is located ; 

(f) " party" includes any person authorized by the party to the matter or an 
advocate for the party ; 

(8) " proceedings" includes pleadings, petition , application , appeal, reference , 
revision , review , affidavit, counter affidavit , other documents filed or received during 
course of conduct of the matter , appearance, leading of arguments, during hearing in 
any matter, judgment, decree or order and such other matters asmay be prescribed by 
the Supreme Court or a High Court, as the case may be ; and 

(h ) " Supreme Court" means the Supreme Court of India . 
3. (1 ) From the appointed day, any party to the proceedings before the Supreme Court Right of the 
and a High Court shall have the right to prefer the official language in conduct of such Party to 

Prefer official 
proceedings in the Supreme Court or a High Court , as the case may be . 

language 
(2 ) The party to the proceedings shall make an application to the Supreme Court or a 

during the 

course of 
High Court for the conduct of the proceedings in the official language in such manner asmay 

proceedings. 
be laid down by the Supreme Court or a High Court, as the case may be, under section 4 . 

4 . (1) Where any party to the proceedings has made preference for the conduct of Conduct of 
proceedings in official language , the Supreme Court or a High Court , as the case may be , proceedings in 

the Supreme 
shall conduct proceedings before it in the official language . 

Court and a 
(2) The Supreme Court or a High Court, as the case may be,may lay down by rules the 

wn by rules the High Court . 
procedure for conduct of proceedings in the official language: 

Provided that such procedure shall not entail any additional expense on any 
party to the case for conducting such proceedings in the official language . 
5 . The appropriate Government shall, — 

Measures by 

appropriate 
(a ) bear the fees of advocates, as may be determined by it , from time to time, for 
such parties to the proceedings who are below poverty line ; 

(b ) fix themaximum fees to be charged by senior advocates in the Supreme Court 
and the High Court; 

(c) bear the expenses of translation of proceedings from other languages in 
English language; and 

(d ) ensure availability of requisite infrastructure in the Supreme Court and the 
concerned High Court within its jurisdiction for conduct of proceedings in the official 
language in the Supreme Court or a High Court, as the case may be , from the appointed 
day. 

Explanation . For the purpose of this section, requisite infrastructure includes 
appropriate translation and typing facility in the official language and such other 
facilities asmay be necessary for conduct of the proceedings in the official languages . 


Government. 


96 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
For effective working of democracy , different types of responsibilities have been 
assigned to Legislature , Executive and Judiciary. The responsibility of protection of honour, 
property and constitutional rights and their periodic review lies with the Judiciary. But 
common people face a lotof difficulties for obtaining justice from the SupremeCourt and the 
High Courts due to hindrances viz . language , translation fees of language and ineffective 
performance of prosecution . 

For easy delivery of justice to common people and for removing difficulties of financial 
expenses and other such issues , concerned parties should be given right to submit affidavit , 
debates and writs in Hindi or in other local languages . Also the expenses of translation from 
English language into other language in the Courts must be incurred by the Courts and the 
Government. Maximum limit of the fees charged by senior advocates must be fixed . Entire 
expenses regarding the proceedings and fees of advocates appearing in the cases and 
appeals in High Court and the Supreme Court on behalf of people living below poverty line 
should be incurred by the Government. 


Hence this Bill. 


AJAY MISRA TENI 


NEW DELHI; 
January 29, 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 5 of the Bill provides that the appropriate Government shall take such measures 
as may be necessary including bearing of the fees of advocates for any party to the proceed 
ings who are below poverty line , as may be determined by it and ensuring availability of 
requisite infrastructure to the Supreme Court or a High Court within its jurisdiction for 
conduct of proceedings in the official language in the Supreme Court or a High Court, as the 
case may be, from the appointed day . The Bill , if enacted , will involve expenditure from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . However, at this stage , it is not possible to quantify the exact 
amount of recurring and non -recurring expenditure likely to be involved . 


98 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Parl 


Bill No. 160 OF 2017 
A Bill further to amend the Wild Life ( Protection ) Act, 1972 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as 

follows: 
Short title and 1 . (1 ) This Act may be called the Wild Life (Protection ) Amendment Act, 2017 . 
commencement. 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 

in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
Insertion of 

2. After section 8 of the Wild Life (Protection ) Act, 1972 (herein referred to as the 53 of 1972 . 
new section 8A . principal Act), the following section shall be inserted , namely : 
Constitution of 

" 8A . (1) The State Government shall, in each sanctuary, constitute a Local 
Local Advisory 

Advisory Committee to assist the State Board for Wild Life constituted under 
Committee . 

section 6 . 

(2 ) The Local Advisory Committee shall consist of: 


( a ) the Chief Wildlife Warden not below the rank of Divisional Forest 
Officer — Chairperson ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


Amendment 
of section 
38 - 0 . 


(b ) Member of Legislative Assembly within whose constituency the 
sanctuary is situated — Member ; 

(c) two representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions — Members; 
(d ) one representative of non - governmental organisations — Member; 

(e) one person having expertise in the field of wildlife conservation 
Member; 

(f ) one representative each from departments of the State Government 
dealing with Home and Veterinary matters — Members; and 

(g ) the officer in - charge of the sanctuary as Member -Secretary, 
to be appointed by the State Government in such manner as may be prescribed. 

(3 ) The Committee shall meet quarterly to deliberate and render advice on the 
measures to be taken for better conservation and management of the sanctuary including 
participation of the people living within and around the sanctuary. 

(4) The Committee shall regulate its own procedure including quorum . 

( 5 ) The minutes of the meeting of the Committee shall be submitted to the Chief 
Wildlife Warden within a period of ten days.". 
3. In section 38 -O of the principal Act, in sub -section (1), 

(i) for sub -clauses (c), (d ), (e) and (f), the following sub- clauses shall be 
substituted , namely : 

" (c ) lay down normative standards for eco -tourism activities, tourism 
activities and guidelines, from time to time, for tiger conservation in the buffer 
and core areas of tiger reserves ; 

( d ) assist Tiger Conservation Foundation by laying down normative 
measures for addressing conflicts of men , wild trees and wild animals and 
emphasize on co -existence in the forest areas outside the National parks , 
sanctuaries or tiger reserves , as the case may be, in the working plan code ; 

(e) provide information on protection measures through future conservation 
plan based on the report of the Steering committees constituted under sub 
section (2 ) of section 38U ; 

(f) co -ordinate research and monitoring on tiger, co -predators, prey , habitat , 
related ecological and socio - economic parameters and their evaluation ;" . 
( ii ) after sub -clause (j), the following sub -clauses shall be inserted , namely : 

( ja ) facilitate and coordinate the functioning of several Tiger Conservation 
Authorities in different States constituted under the Act; and 

" ( jb ) decide, in consultation with the National Board for Wild Life , the 
State Boards for Wild Life and the appropriate Union Ministry , the quantum of 
compensation payable in the event of wild life -human conflict, in addition to the 
immediate payment of ex - gratia compensation ;" . 

(iii) in sub -clause (k), for the word " functions", the words," residuary functions" 
shall be substituted . 
4 . After section 38P, the following section shall be inserted , namely : 


Insertion of 
new section 
38PA . 


" 38PA . ( 1) The Central Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette , Constitution 
constitute a Regulatory Authority to regulate the activities of the National Tiger 

of Regulatory 
Conservation Authority and shall submit an annual report to the CentralGovernment in this 

Authority and 

procedure to 
behalf . 

regulate Tiger 
Conservation 
Authority . 


100 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(2) The Regulatory Authority shall consist of,— 

( a ) the Secretary , Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change — 
Chairperson ; 

(b ) ten Chief Wild Life Wardens — member ; 


(c ) five experts or professionals having prescribed qualifications and experience 
in conservation of wild life and welfare of people living in tiger reserve who are not 
already appointed members of the National Tiger Conservation Authority — member; 
and 


(d ) one member from the NationalGreen Tribunal, member, 


to be appointed by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed : 

Provided that every member appointed under clauses (b ), (c ) and (d ) shall be appointed 
for annual non -consecutive terms. 

(3) The Regulatory Authority shall address any grievance or dispute filed by a State 
level or local body or Authority related to the administration of Tiger Reserves, the 
conservation of the tiger and the performance of the National Tiger Conservation Authority . 

(4) Every grievance or dispute filed under sub - section (2 ) shall be addressed on a 
majority of the votes of the member of the Regulatory Authority present and voting. 

(5 ) Every member of the Regulatory Authority shall be empowered to highlight a 
specific issue in the functioning of the National Tiger Conservation Authority and the Tiger 
Conservation Authority Fund: 

Provided that no such issue shall be tabled and resolved unless counter filed by a 
majority vote from the members of the Regulatory Authority : 

Provided further that in the case of a grievance against the decisions of the National 
Tiger Conservation Authority, the Regulation Authority shall act as the harmonising, resolution 
and deciding forum . 

(6 ) The Central Government shall remove a member referred to in clause (b ) of sub 
section (1) ofsection 38PA , from office if he 

( a ) is , or at any time has been , adjudicated as insolvent; 


(b ) has been convicted of an offence which , in the opinion of the Central 
Government, involves moral turpitude; 


(c ) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court; 


(d ) refuses to act or becomes incapable of acting; 

(e) is ,without, obtaining leave of absence from the Regulatory Authority , absent 
from three consecutive meetings of the said Authority ; or 

( ) has, in the opinion of the Central Government, so abused his position as to 
render his continuation in office detrimental to the public interest: 


Provided that no member shall be removed from office under this sub -section 
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter. 

( 7) Any vacancy in the office of a member shall be filled by fresh appointment and such 
member shall continue for the remainder of the term of the member in whose place he is 
appointed . 

(8 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of appointment 
of the members of the Regulatory Authority shall be such as may be prescribed . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


101 


Amendment 
of section 
38U . 


5 . In section 38U of the principal Act, after sub -section (2 ), the following sub -section 
shall be added , namely : 

" ( 3) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub -section ( 1), the Steering 
committee shall undertake the estimation of population of tiger and its natural prey 
species, status of habitats, disease surveillance , mortality survey, patrolling , reports 
on untoward happenings and such other management aspects as it may deem fit 
including future plan conservation , and report to the Tiger Conservation Authority for 
the preparation of future conservation plan .". 

6 . In section 38X of the principal Act , after sub - section (2), the following sub -section 
shall be inserted , namely: 

" (3) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub -section (1), the Tiger 
Conservation Foundation shall ensure the implementation of eco -tourism and tourism 
policy in accordance with the normative standards for eco -tourism activities , tourism 
activities and guidelines laid down under sub -clause (c ) of sub -section (1 ) of section 
38 - O and section 38XA ." . 

7. After section 38X of the principal Act , the following sections shall be inserted , 
namely : 


Amendment 
of section 
38X . 
Establishment 
of Tiger 
Conservation 
Foundation 
and its 
functions 
Insertion of 
new sections 
38XA and 
38XB . 


Formulation 
of policy to 
promote and 
incentivize 
tourism and 
eco -tourism . 


" 38XA. ( 1) The State Government shall formulate a comprehensive policy to promote 
and incentivize tourism and eco -tourism over conventional wildlife tourism under its 
jurisdiction . 

(2 ) While formulating the policy under sub -section (I), the State Government shall 
take into account, — 

(a ) maintenance of the integrity of the forest reserve ; 
(b ) participation of the local communities in eco - tourism ; 
(c) rights and benefit sharing with the local communities ; 
(d ) sustainable use of indigenous material; 

(e ) education , training and capacity building in conservation , - eco- tourism and 
ancillary techniques; 

(f) adequate assessmentmechanism to assess the impact of eco -tourism activities 
on the wild life reserve and local communities ; and 


( g ) developmental activities in tune with the ecological integrity of the forest 
reserve. 


(3 ) No new infrastructure shall be set up within the core zone of the Wild Life Reserves, 
except for the purposes of the principal Act or with the special permission of the authority (s) 
empowered thereunder in this regard . 

(4) The State Government shall constitute a Community Development Fund from the 
revenue received from the visitor registration in each wild life reserve . 

(5) The Community Development Fund shall be utilized for the development of local 
community livelihood in that region . 

Explanation . For the purposes of this sub - section , the term Local shall comprise of 
the field staff and the residents of and in close vicinity of the forest reserve area . 

(6 ) The State Government shall levy a minimal conservation fees from the Wild Life 
tourism industry taking into consideration capacity, economic segment or such basis as it 
may deem fit to fund eco -tourism development and community upliftment projects the forest 
reservation . 


102 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force , 
fifty per cent. of the total number of persons to be engaged in infrastructural development 
shall be reserved in favour of local persons in such manner as may be prescribed : 

Provided that the reservation in favour of local persons may be increased on 
unavailability of requisite work force in the local community. 

(8 ) The Tiger Conservation Foundation shall, in consultation with the Local Advisory 
Committee, direct the officer - in -charge of every Tiger Reserve to prepare a comprehensive 
tourism plan in pursuance of Tiger Conservation Plan and the national Tiger Conservation 
Authority . 

( 9 ) The Tourism plan under sub -section (7 ) shall be prepared in tune with the State 
Tourism and Eco - Tourism strategy and submitted to the Tiger Conservation Foundation and 
Steering Committee for approval. 
( 10 ) The tourism plan prepared under sub -section (7 ) shall take into account: 

(a ) identification and monitoring of ecologically sensitive areas in and around 
forest reserves to protect the ecological integrity ; 

(b ) assessment of capacity of Tiger Reserve at three levels namely physical, real 
and permissible in terms of visitors, vehicles , residential as well as commercial 
infrastructure ; 

(c ) fixation of ceiling on the number of visitors to a Forest Reserve at any point 
in time and annually based on the capacity assessment; 

( d ) designation of area for eco - tourism development; 
(e) limiting tourism activities to the delineated tourism zone ; 
(f) registration of tourism vehicles with the Forest Reserve management; 
(8) mandating the presence of authorised guide in every vehicle ; 

(h ) local community participation to generate a mutually beneficial relationship 
between Wild Life conservation and Local community development; 

(i) development of codes for standardization of private sector tourism industry 
in the vicinity of the forest reserves; 

( j) mechanism for the assessment of impact of tourism on Wild Life; 

(k ) development of appropriate infrastructure development codes for the forest 
reserves ; 


( ) deva 


est 


(1) preparation of an effective list of restrictions for the visitors; 


and 


Jurisdiction 
over sacred 
and religious 
sites located 
within the 
reserve areas. 


( m ) inculcation of subsidized registration for educational, survey and academic 
research purposes . 

38XB . (1) The religious sites located within the forest reserve area shall be subject to 
the provisions of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 , the principal Act and the Environment 69 of 1980 . 
Protection Act , 1986 . 

29 of 1986 . 
(2 ) The Tiger Conservation Foundation established under section 38X shall be 
responsible for periodical review of developments of religious sites located within the forest 
reserve area. 

(3 ) The religious sites located within the forest reserve area shall comply with the rules 
and regulations prescribed for the tourism industry with regard to building codes, pollution 
control, alternate energy usage , conservation fees and free passage of Wild Life . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


103 


Explanation . — The conservation fee shall be uniform across all religions in the entire 
Indian territory. 

(4 ) Any set up , temporary or permanent , for the purpose of stay shall be restricted to 
the dates nominated for the appropriate authorities in this regard , with prior approval of the 
respective forest reserve officer - in - charge .” . 


104 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India is home to seventy per cent. of the world s total tiger population . Despite the 
consistent increase in funding for conservation and persistent Government efforts, the 
continuous decline in the tiger population has been relentless. Thus, a sustainable solution 
to ensure the protection of tigers needs to emerge from within an inclusive framework . 

The current model of tiger conservation is governed by the Wild Life ( Protection ) 
Amendment Act, 2006 , which led to the constitution of the National Tiger Conservation 
Authority and Project Tiger. Eleven years hence , the statistics prove that this system has not 
only failed to protect tigers , but also failed to prevent a loss in their habitat . 

The foundation of any conservation strategy is the pattern of ownership that it 
advocates. A careful and calculated transition from State ownership to a public-private 
ownership , along with a strong emphasis on community control, should be considered . This 
transition can be facilitated by putting into effectnew eco -tourism rules that will simultaneously 
increase the State Governments revenue for conservation and reduce their dependence on 
central subsidies. 

Initializing the processes of decentralization , privatization and an inclusion of local 
communities can create the framework necessary for sustainable and long - term conservation 
of India s national animal . It is the duty of theGovernment to build deeper relationships with 
respective State Governments, the local communities and most importantly, the conservation 
bureaucracy and wildlife research community. This amendment has been proposed to address 
the above-mentioned issues. 


Hence this Bill . 


KALIKESH NARAYAN SINGH DEO 


NEW DELHI; 
June 29, 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


105 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 2 of the Bill seeks to constitute a Local Advisory Committee for each sanctuary. 
Clause 4 provides that the Central Government shall constitute a Regulatory Authority to 
oversee the functioning of the National Tiger Conservation Authority. The Bill, therefore, if 
enacted would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India. It is estimated that 
a recurring expenditure of about rupees hundred crore would involve per annum from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees two hundred crore is also likely to be 
involves. 


106 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 234 OF 2017 
A Bill further to amend the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act , 2012. 

Be is enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
Short title and 1. (1 ) This Act may be called the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences 
commencement. (Amendment) Act , 2017 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 

in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
Amendment 

2 . In section 2 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act , 2012 (hereinafter 
of section 2 . referred to as the principal Acts, 

(a ) after clause (c ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

( ca ) " Centre " means the One Stop Crisis Centre set up under section 
38B ; ; 


32 of 2012. 


(b ) after clause (d ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely: 

(da ) " child victim " means the child against whom the offence has been 
committed under this Act; ; and 
(c ) after clause (e), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

(ea ) " Fund " means the Sexually Abused Children Rehabilitation and 
Welfare Fund constituted under section 38F ; . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


107 


3. In section 3 of the principal Act, after clause (d ), the following provisos shall be Amendment 
inserted , namely: 

of section 3 . 
“ Provided that the consensual sexual intercourse or any sexual act with a child in the 
age group of sixteen to eighteen years shall not constitute an offence : 

Provided further that the consensual sexual intercourse or any sexual actwhich causes 
or likely to cause any harm to the child giving the consent shall constitute an offence.” 

4. In section 19 of the principal Act, after sub -section (5), the following sub -section Amendment 
shall be inserted , namely : 

of section 19 . 
" (5A) where the accused is a relative of the child either through blood or adoption or 
marriage or guardianship or in foster care or having a family relationship with a parent of the 
child or who is living in the same or shared household with the child against whom the 
offence has been committed , then , the Special Juvenile Police Unit or local police shall, after 
recording the reasons in writing,make immediate arrangement to admit the child into a shelter 
home or a child care institution registered under section 41 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and 
Protection of Children ) Act, 2015 so that at no pointof time the child comes in contact in any 
way with the accused .". 

5 . After Chapter VIII of the Principal Act, the following Chapter and sections thereunder Insertion of 
shall be inserted , namely: 

new chapter 

VIIIA . 
" CHAPTER VIIIA 


2 of 2016 . 


SUPPORT, REHABILITATION AND SOCIAL INTEGRATION 


38A . The Central Government and every State Government shall take such measures Central 
as it thinks fit and appropriate to ensure and undertake the process of rehabilitation and Government 

and State 
social integration of the child victim . 

Government 
to take 
measures to 
ensure and 
undertake the 
process of 
rehabilitation 
and social 
integration of 
the child 
victim . 


38B . (1 ) The State Governmentshall, by notification in the OfficialGazette , set up and Setting up of 
maintain in every district, one or more Centre to be known as the One Stop Crisis Centre as One Stop 
may be required , to facilitate the child victim to deal with the trauma of abuse and assist him 

m Crisis Centre. 
in processes involved with appearing as a witness before the Special Court or any authority 
handling his case . 

(2 ) Every Centre set up under sub - section (1), shall be registered within a period of six 
months from the date of commencement of this Act in such manner as may be prescribed . 
( 3) The Centre shall consist of — 

(a ) one Centre Co -ordinator with prescribed qualificationsand experience matters 
concerning children ; 

(b ) four case -workers who are experts or professionals shaving prescribed 
qualifications and experience on matters concerning child sexual abuse ; 

(c ) two legal officers with prescribed qualifications and experience on laws related 
to children ; 

(d ) one counsellor with prescribed qualifications and experience ofworking with 
children who are victims of sexual abuse ; 


108 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(e ) a panel of doctors , forensic experts , pediatricians, psychologists , 
gynecologists and other professional service providers who may be called on to 
provide necessary services as per the requirements in each case ; 

(f) two members of the State Commissions for Protection of Child Rights 
constituted under section 17 of the Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act, 
2005 , 


4 of 2006 . 


to be appointed by the State Government in such manner as may be prescribed : 


Provided that at least one of the case -worker appointed under clause (b ) shall be a 
woman . 


Functions of 
the Centre. 


(4 ) The salaries and allowances payable to , and other terms and conditions of service 
of persons appointed under clause (a) to (f) shall be such as may be prescribed . 
38C . The Centre shall 

(a ) provide basic requirements such as food , clothing , shelter and medical 
attention , including counselling specific to the need of the child victim ; 

(b ) provide assistance to every child victim at the time of medical examination 
including escort of the child to the place ofmedical examination ; 

(C) provide assistance for obtaining the proof of identity , wherever required ; 

(d ) facilitate proper investigations into the case and provide immediate special 
and support services to the child victim ; 

(e ) provide legal aid wherever required ; 

(f) undertake case management including preparation and follow up of individual 
child ; 

(8) attend hearing in court in the best interest of the child ; 

(h ) provide referral services for education , vocational training, treatment of 
diseases where required ; 

(i) provide recreational activities including sports and cultural activities; and 


Centre to 
submit 
information 
to State 
Government. 


(j) undertake such othermeasures asmay be necessary for the rehabilitation and 
welfare of the child victim under this Act. 

38D . ( 1) The Centre shall submitmonthly information regarding children availing the 
services of the Centre under this Act to the State Government in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 


(2 ) The State Government shall , after taking into account the number of children 
availing the services of the Centre , provide monthly funding to a Centre to ensure well -being 
of the children in such manner as may be prescribed . 

38E . The Central Governmentand State Government shall independently evaluate and 
monitor the functioning of the Centre , at such period and through such persons or institutions 
as may be prescribed by thatGovernment. 


Government to 
monitor the 
funct 
the Centre. 


Constitution of 38F . ( 1) The Central Government shall, as soon asmay be , by notification in the official 
Sexually Abused Gazette , constitute a Fund to be known as the Sexually Abused Children Rehabilitation and 
Children 

Welfare Fund for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 
Rehabilitation 
and Welfare 

(2 ) The Fund shall be credited money received from body corporate and financial 
Fund . 

institutions of both domestic and international, individuals and bodies donations . 

(3 ) All money received in the Fund shall be utilized for carrying out the purposes of 
this Act in such manner as may be prescribed . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


109 


38G . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law 
in this behalf , from time to time, provide adequate funds to the State Governments for 
carrying out the purposes of this Act.” 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds to the 
State 
Government . 


5. After section 41 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted ,namely :- 


Insertion of 
new section 
41A . 


“ 41A . Where the accused is a parent or a guardian of the child , the provisions of 
sections 3 to 13 (both inclusive) shall not apply in case of medical examination or medical 
treatment of a child , when suchmedical examination ormedical treatment is undertaken in the 
best interest of the child without the consent from his parents or guardian : 

Provided that medical examination or medical treatment of a child victim shall not apply 
when the consent is obtained from the authority handling the case .” . 


Provisions of 
sections 3 to 
13 (both 
inclusive) not 
to apply in 
case of 
medical 
examination 
or medical 
treatment of 
a child 
undertaken in 
the best 
interest of the 
child . 


Amendment 
of section 43. 


6 . In section 43 of the principal Act, after clause (b ), the following clauses shall be 
inserted ,namely: 

" (c) sensitisation of all stakeholders including police officers at all levels ,Magistrate, 
Child Welfare Committees, SpecialProsecutors and Juvenile Justice Board to make procedures 
child friendly and provide periodic training on method of handling child abuse related case; 


and 


( d ) conduct periodic child sensitisation programmes and orientation on laws related to 
children for those involved in healing rehabilitation and other assistance programmes for 
children .” . 


110 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India is home to the largest child population in the world . Almost forty -two per cent. 
of the total population of the country is under eighteen years of age . Needless to say, the 
health and security of the country s children is an integral to any vision for its progress and 
development 

The Ministry of Women and Child Development enacted the Protection of Children 
from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 to protect our children from offences of child sexual assault 
and to provide a child - friendly system for trial of the offences. Despite the stringent legal 
provisions, India continues to rank among the top five countries with the highest rate of 
child sexual abuse . 

Over the past few years , various lacunae in the implementation of this Act has become 
apparent. Law conviction rate (meagerly between 7 - 16 per cent.) and increasing pendency of 
cases continue to be a hindrance in providing justice to victims of child sexual abuse. This 
Bill is an effort to address the weaknesses of the present legislative framework . 

A common observation is that the judicial system is overburdened with cases of 
consensual sex . Any sexual activity with children under eighteen years is considered to be 
an offence as the law does not recognise consent. It presents a problem as young boys and 
girls in consesnual relationships are often trapped under the charges of sexual assault . 
Subsequently , victims turn hostile as they are forced in to the lawful case due to family 
presssure leading to acquittals and false cases. In the light of these circumstances , there is 
a need to look at consensual relationships from a different perspective and decriminalise 
them depending on whether there was a criminal intent. 

Statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau 2016 reveal that 94 .8 per cent. 
of rape cases saw children being raped by someone they knew including neighbours, direct 
family members and relatives. The abusers often use their position of power, age difference , 
intellectualor physical development, relationship of authority over child or child s dependency 
over them to their advantage. A recent study of High Court judgments revealed that a high 
proportion of vicitims turned hostile when the perpetrator was an acquaintance . To bring the 
conviction rate higher and punish the perpetrators , there is an overwhelming need to separate 
the children from the family in caseswhere the alleged perpetrator is a family member to avoid 
them from turning hostile. 

Secondly, if the doctors conductmedical examination or treatment of the child victim 
against consent of the parents , they can be prosecuted . If the parent or father is an abuser, 
he may refuse to provide such consent. There is need to take into consideration cases of 
incest, where the doctors cannot be criminally charged for acting in the best interest of the 
child and performing the examination , without the consent of the parents . 

Lack of training and sensitisation on child friendly procedure often creates traumatic 
episodes for children . The need is also to provide an exhaustive list of stakeholders to be 
trained to implement child friendly mechanisms during the course of trial to address the 
needs of children . 

Sexual abuse can scar the psyche of the affected child for life and lead to suicidal 
tendencies. The current law lacks exclusive provisions for after - care , medical support and 
social integration of the child which further exposes him to re -victimisation in the society . 
The need of the hour is direct the State Governments to establish and maintain one stop 
crisis centres in every district to provide integrated services such as police assistance , legal 
aid , medical and counselling for serving the victims better. 

We need to make our nation safe for children , better policing, increasing accountability , 
bolstering mechanisms for prevention , and ensuring swifter prosecution should be the 
approach of stakeholders involved . 

Hence this Bill. 


KALIKESHNARAYAN SINGH DEO 


NEW DELHI; 
November 29, 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


111 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 5 of the Bill provides that Central Government shall take such measures as it 
thinks fit and appropriate to ensure and undertake the process of rehabilitation and social 
integration of the child victim . It also provides for setting up of One Stop Crisis Centre by the 
State Government to facilitate the child victim to deal with the trauma of abuse . It also 
provides for appointment of experts and other persons to the Centre . It further provides for 
the establishment of the Sexually Abused Rehabilitation and Welfare Fund by the Central 
Government. The expenditure relating to States shall be borne from the Consolidated Fund 
of the State Government concerned . The Bill, therefore, if enacted , will involve recurring 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees fifty 
crore per annum would involve from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non - recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees ten crore is also likely to be involved . 


112 


112 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Parl 


Bill No. 125 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 . 

Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 1 . (1 ) This Act may be called the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Amendment) 
commencement. Act, 2017 . 


49 of 2016 . 


Amendment 
of the 
Schedule . 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2. In the Schedule to the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 after para 4 , the 
following para shall be inserted , namely : 

" 4A . Epidermolysis bullosa that is, a group of disorders in which congenital 
malformation caused by genetic conditions causes the skin to be very fragile and to 
blister easily . 
Formsof epidermolysis shall include: 

(i) Epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica ; 
( ii ) Epidermolysis bullosa simplex ; 
( iii ) Epidermolysis bullosa letalis .". 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


113 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Clause (zc ) of Section 2 defines specified disability in term of disabilities mentioned in 
the Schedule to the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 . It has been observed that 
many children in India are suffering from various types of epidermolysis bullosa which is a 
congenital malformation that cause the skin to be very fragile and to blister easily . Blisters 
and skin erosions form in response to minor injury or friction thereby requiring rigorous 
skin care . The 10th revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and 
Related Health Problems classifies epidermolysis bullosa into three types namely 
epidermolysis bullosa dystrophica , epidermolysis bullosa simplex and epidermolysis 
bullosa letalis . 

Depending on the form of condition , symptoms include alopecia (hair loss ), blisters 
around the eyes and nose , blisters in or around the mouth and throat causing feeding 
problems or swallowing difficulty , blisters on the skin as a result ofminor injury or temperature 
change , blistering that is present at birth , dental problems such as tooth decay, hoarse cry , 
cough or other breathing problems and nail loss or deformed nails. 

Children in India afflicted with epidermolysis bullosa have been subjected to prejudice 
and various forms of discrimination . Moreover, they are deprived of educational 
opportunities , thereby violating the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities. The Bill seeks to safeguard dignity and grant equality of opportunity to all 
those children who are suffering from various strains of epidermolysis bullosa . 

Hence this Bill . 


POONAM MAHAJAN 


NEW DELHI; 
July 3 , 2017 . 


114 


114 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Parl 


Bill No. 150 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 

follows: 
Short title and 1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Guardians and Wards (Amendment) Act, 2017 . 
commencement. 

(2) It shall come into force as on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


115 


8 of 1890 . 


2 . After Section 18 of the Guardians and Wards Act , 1890 , the following section shall Insertion of 
be inserted , namely : 

new section 


18A . 


32 of 2012 . 


" 18A . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the timebeing in Prohibition 
force , the Court shall not grant any remedy under sections 7 , 12 and 25 to any person of visitation 

and custodial 
who is accused of committing an offence punishable under the Protection of Children 

rights of an 
from SexualOffences Act, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the POCSO Act, 2012 ) against offending 
the minor or ward in respect of whom such remedy is claimed , unless the same is guardian . 
proved to be in the best interests of such minor or ward , as the case may be. 

Explanation . For the purpose of sub -section (1), it shall be sufficient if 
the person is named as the accused either in a complaint filed with the police or 
if such an accusation is made against such person in any of the pleadings taken 
before the Court. 

(2 ) Where an accusation under sub -section (1) is made against any guardian in 
any proceeding before the Court, then notwithstanding any criminal proceedings 
initiated against such guardian , the Court shall determine the best interests of the 
minor or ward after conducting a detailed inquiry . 

( 3) During inquiry under sub - section (2 ), the court shall forward a copy of the 
pleadings setting out such accusation to the Special Juvenile Police Unit or the local 
police in whose jurisdiction the minor or the ward who is the alleged victim of such 
offence resides and the police authority shall, on receiving the said copy, act in 
accordance with sections 19 and 21 of the POSCO Act, 2012 . 

(4 ) The Court shall , pending the inquiry under sub - section (2 ),draw a rebuttable 
presumption that granting any custody or visitation or any kind of face to face 
interaction or access to the guardian accused of committing any offence punishable 
under the POSCO Act, 2012 in respect of the minor or a ward ,as the case may be, shall 
not be in the best interest of such minor or a ward . 

(5) The Court shall direct parties to the dispute to lead evidence in support of 
their respective stand for or against the grant of measures provided under sections 7 , 
12 or 25 . 


32 of 2012 . 


32 of 2012 . 


5 of 1908 . 


(6 ) In case the minor is being treated by a child psychiatrist or a child 
psychologist, the Court shall appoint such child psychiatrist or child psychologist as 
a welfare expert under Order XXXIIA , Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 : 

Provided that in case the child is not being treated by such a psychiatrist 
or the psychologist , then the Court shall seek the assistance of the Child Welfare 
Committee or the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights , who , either 
by themselves or through any person so appointed by them , shall be deemed to 
be a welfare expert under Order XXXIIA , Rule 4 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure , 1908. 


5 of 1908 . 


32 of 2012 . 


(7 ) Every welfare expert appointed under sub -section (6 ) shall examine the minor 
who is the victim of offences punishable under the POCSO Act, 2012 and a report 
thereof to the Court. 

(8 ) The Court shall permit the parties to the dispute to examine and cross examine 
such welfare experts and lead any other evidence which they deem fit. 

(9 ) The Court shall upon conclusion of evidence in respect of the remedy claimed 
under section 12 , hear both parties and pass suitable orders: 

Provided that in case the Court decides to grant remedy under section 12 
to the guardian accused of the offences punishable under the POCSO Act, 2012 , 
then it shall provide detailed reasoning as to why the presumption under 
sub - section ( 4 ) above is rebutted . 


32 of 2012 . 


116 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(10) In case the Court comes to the conclusion that the guardian claiming remedy 
under section 12 has committed the offence punishable under the POCSO Act , 2012 ; 32 of 2012 . 
then the inquiry shall be deemed as an inquiry under section 18 of the Protection of 
Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005 and the Court shall treat such minor as a 43 of 2005. 
victim ( s ) of domestic violence under section 3 ( c ) of the Protection of Women from 
Domestic Violence Act, 2005 and further direct that the offending guardian shall be 43 of 2005. 
prohibited from coming in face to face contact or any other kind of contact with the 
minor who is the victim of such offence punishable under the POCSO Act, 2012 . 32 of 2012 . 


Explanation . 

(1) The burden of proof in the inquiry set forth above shall be the 
preponderance of probabilities and not beyond reasonable doubt; 

(2 ) If the parent accused of child sexual abuse has been acquitted by the 
criminal court, the same shall be ignored by the Court and it shall conduct its 
own independent inquiry in themanner set forth above without being influenced 
by the order of acquittal by the criminal court; 

(3) Mere acquittal by the criminal court shall not exempt the offending 
parent from facing the inquiry set forth above ." . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


117 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Union Ministry of Women and Child Development in its study on child abuse 
conducted in 2007 stated that out of 53 % of children reporting child sex abuse , 50 % had 
suffered intra familial abuse. 

India is obligated to evolve adequate measures to protect child sex abuse victims from 
their offending parents which aligns with the right against discrimination and the right to 
health and dignity contained in Articles 15 and 21 of the Constitution respectively. Coupled 
with society s denial of incest, an offending father despite the said prohibition accompanying 
bail, can influence the child through lawfully awarded interim visitation rights thereby stalling 
prosecution efforts against him .No explicit legislative prohibition exists against the granting 
of custody or visitation rights to fathers committing a sexual offence pending conviction in 
a criminal trial. Experts caution against the granting of monitored visitation to offending 
parents because their very presence may trigger in the child traumatic memories of abuse , 
feelings of being unsupported and lead to recanting of allegations against the offender 
thereby resulting in compromising criminal trial against the parent. 

The rationale behind Government preparing guidelines from custodial and visitation 
claimsby offending fathers is aimed towards ensuring that the child should not be forced to 
meet him . The child s relationship with mother should be strengthened by recognising her as 
the sole guardian .Unless absolutely necessary, the Court should not issue orders repeatedly 
for mediation , custody or visitation in the families involved . Moreover, orders granting 
visiting rights to an offending father should be issued only after consultations with mental 
health experts clearly find such visitation to be in the child s best interests . Finally , acquittal 
in a criminal trial should not automatically absolve the father of liability . Either the Family 
Court or a specially constituted Court should initiate an independent inquiry using the 
standard of preponderance of probability to be certain of innocence . 

Hence this Bill. 


POONAM MAHAJAN 


NEW DELHI; 
July 03, 2017 


118 


118 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Parl 


Bill No . 175 OF 2017 
A Bill further to amend the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory 

Education Act, 2009 . 
Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Right ofChildren to Free and Compulsory Education 
commencement. (Amendment ) Act, 2017. 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


119 


35 of 2009 . 


2 . In section 21 of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Amendment 
Act, 2009 , – 

of section 21. 
" (a ) in sub -section (1 ), for the third proviso , the following proviso shall be 
substituted , namely : 

" Provided also that two-thirds ofMembers of such Committee shall be women ." ; 

(b ) in sub - section ( 2 ), after clause (c ), the following clause shall be inserted , 
namely : 


" (ca ) undertakemeasures including assessing performance of the teachers 
and taking suitable action to ensure imparting of good quality education 
conforming to the standards and norms specified in the Schedule.". 


120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The SchoolManagement Committee is a critical accountability structure in the Right 
of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. However, this Committee currently 
lacks sufficient ability to hold schools and especially teachers , accountable for the full and 
proper education of children . The need is to provide sufficient representation to women 
particularly to mothers of students in these Committees and to incentivise parents to enroll 
their wards in Governmentschools with a view to perform their assigned role more efficiently 
in managing these schools. 


In its current structure , the School Management Committee does not have the power 
or authority to ensure accountability of teachers. Parents are up against teachers , and their 
powerful unions, and their only hope is very weak SchoolManagement Committee structures 
that are supposed to hold these teachers accountable . Moreover, with only the poorest of 
the poor sending their children to Government schools and teachers enjoying the benefits 
of Seventh Pay Commission , the parents most often find themselves at disadvantageous 
position in keeping teachers accountable . Therefore , parents have hardly any voice to play 
their due role in compelling these schools to impart quality education . 

The incentives designed by the Government for the parents who are sending their 
children to these schools are not meeting the designed objectives of the principal Act. Very 
limited access to what is taught in the classroom , absence of English as medium of instruction , 
inability to track assessments and their child s progress, lack of co -scholastic activities , 
further dis- incentivises parents to engage with the Government school system . 

Mothers, especially those who have been deprived of proper educational attainment, 
dedicated towards educational upliftment of their children can play a very positive role 
towards ensuring imparting of quality education . Their active participation in the School 
Management Committee will ensure accountability of schools as well as to air their genuine 
concerns regarding academic progress of the students and their overall welfare in a proper 
manner . 


Hence this Bill . 


POONAM MAHAJAN 


NEW DELHI; 
July 5 , 2017. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


121 


Bill No . 173 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Short title and 
( Amendment ) Act, 2017 . 

commencement. 
(2 ) It shall come into force as on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2 . After section 38 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 , the Insertion of 
following section shall be inserted , namely: 

new section 

38A . 
" 38A . (1) In case of any person being acquitted by the Special Court, the Court Acquittal by 
shall set forth detailed reasoning as to the following : - 

Special Court. 
( a ) whether the accused has been acquitted because of the reason of 
innocence or because of the prosecution having failed to meet the burden of 
proof to prove the guilt ; or 


32 of 2012 . 


122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(b ) in case of the prosecution having failed to meet the burden of proof to 
prove the guilt , the Court shall identify and name all the persons responsible for 
such lapses including the public prosecutor or the police officers involved , if 

any. 
(2) In case the accused is acquitted by reason of the prosecution having failed to meet 
the burden of proof and such accused person is also related to the child , it is clarified that 
such acquittal shall not automatically entitle the accused to — 

(i) claim custody or visitation rights to such child ; or 

(ii) have any kind of access to the child , except through an order of a family 
court, which shall hold an independent inquiry to determine the guilt of the accused 
through preponderance of probabilities." . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


123 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Union Ministry of Women and Child Development in its study on child abuse 
conducted in 2007 stated that out of fifty three per cent. of children reporting child sex abuse, 
fifty per cent. had suffered intra -familial abuse. 

India is obligated to evolve adequate measures to protect child sex abuse victims from 
their offending parents which aligns with the right against discrimination and the right to 
health and dignity contained in articles 15 and 21 of the Constitution , respectively. Coupled 
with society s denial of incest, an offending father despite the said prohibition accompanying 
bail , can influence the child through lawfully awarded interim visitation rights thereby stalling 
prosecution efforts against him .No explicit legislative prohibition exists against the granting 
of custody or visitation rights to fathers committing a sexual offence pending conviction in 
a criminal trial. Experts caution against the granting of monitored visitation to offending 
parents because their very presence may trigger in the child traumatic memories of abuse , 
feelings of being unsupported and lead to recanting of allegations against the offender 
thereby resulting in compromising criminal trial against the parent. 

The rationale behind Government preparing guidelines from custodial and visitation 
claims by offending fathers is aimed at ensuring that the child should not be forced to meet 
him . The child s relationship with mother should be strengthened by recognising her as the 
sole guardian . Unless absolutely necessary, the court should not issue orders repeatedly for 
mediation , custody or visitation in the families involved . Moreover, orders granting visiting 
rights to an offending father should be issued only after consultations with mental health 
experts clearly find such visitation to be in the child s best interests . Finally , acquittal in a 
criminal trial should not automatically absolve the father of liability . Either the family court or 
the special court should initiate an independent inquiry using the standard of preponderance 
of probabilities to be certain of innocence . 

Hence, this Bill. 
NEW DELHI; 

POONAM MAHAJAN 
July 25 , 2017 . 


124 


124 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Paerll 


Bill No. 45 OF 2018 
A Bill to provide skill training to individuals post retirement, including and not limited 
to ex - servicemen to enable them to learn new skills and gain employability and 
also to include skill education as compulsory part of school and college 
curriculum and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 

1 . ( 1 ) This Actmay be called The Skill ( Training and Education ) Act, 2018 . 
extent and 
commencement. 

(2) It shall extend to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

(3 ) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Government may , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


125 


Definitions. 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases , the Central Government; 


(b ) “ Ex- servicemen ” means an individual who has been a member of the armed 
forces; 

(c ) “ internship module ” means a position of a student or trainee who works in 
an organisation , sometimes without pay, in order to gain work experience or satisfy 
requirements for a qualification ; 

(d ) “ job fair ” means an event where employers , recruiters and schools give 
information to potential employees ; 

(e) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 
(1) “ sustenance ” meansminimum wage required for livelihood . 


centres . 


3. (1 ) The appropriate Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette , set up Appropriate 
training centres in each State and Union territory to impart skill training to individuals post Government 
retirement to help them gain employment for their sustenance . 

to set up skill 

training 
(2 ) The CentralGovernment and the State Governments shall contribute for the funding 
of the training centres in such proportion as may be prescribed . 

(3) The appropriate Government shall provide necessary training options to individuals 
based on the demand of skilled workforce . 
4 . Every training centre set up under section 3 shall provide 

Training 

centres to 
(a ) accommodation facilities for all trainees ; 

provide for 

accommodation, 
(b ) nutritious meal; and 

meal and 

equipments. 
(c ) equipments required for skill training. 
5 . (1 ) The appropriate Government shall, after the completion of training , ensure job Appropriate 
availability to the skilled individuals ; 

Government 

to ensure job 
(2) For the purpose of sub -section ( I), the appropriate Government shall 

availability to 

skilled 
(a ) organise job fairs in each State ; 

individuals. 
(b ) introduce internship module ; and 

(c ) conduct assessment and counselling sessions for trainees. 
6 . The appropriate Government shall reserve 

Reservation in 

favour of 
(a ) twenty per cent of seats in each training centre ; and 

exservicemen . 
(b ) five per cent of the jobs under the State , 
in favour of ex -servicemen . 

7 . (1) The appropriate Government shall make skill education a compulsory part of the Appropriate 
school and college curriculum to impart basic skill training to students . 

Government 

to provide 
(2) The appropriate Government shall provide options for skill training to be provided compulsory 
to the students, who can choose to learn any one of the particular set of skills among the 

skill education 

in schools and 
given options. 

colleges. 


8 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent Overriding 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force relating to skill education effect of the 
and training, or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act. 


Act . 


126 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Act not in 
derogation of 
other laws. 


9. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
law for the time being in force . 


Power to 
make rules . 


10 . ( 1) The appropriate Governmentmay, by notification in the Official Gazette, make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rulemade under this Act by the CentralGovernmentshall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made , before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total 
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two ormore successive 
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 
both the Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect 
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 


( 3 ) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before the State Legislature. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


127 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India has a huge labour force , second only to China .Labour availability is expected to 
grow further as India is predicted to be the youngest country in the world with a median age 
of twenty-nine by 2020 . However the Labour Bureau Report 2014 had pegged the skilled 
workforce of India at a dismal two per cent. 

The Government has taken several initiatives in the last few years under the Skill 
India Programme to train individuals in various industry relevant skills . However,most of 
these programmes target the freshly unemployed citizens or college dropouts , but ignores 
the approximately twenty per centof the population in the age group of 40 -60 years old who 
are usually unemployed by this age having retired from their previous employment. They 
have the potential to work and contribute in a significant way but they lag behind due to 
lack of skill required for any new job opportunity . If trained , this population can contribute 
in pushing the skilled workforce of India significantly . 

The most important change however needs to happen on a cultural level. Skill training 
should be viewed as a complimentary part of mainstream education , rather than being 
regarded as an inferior alternative. Therefore, the curriculum and education system offered 
also needs to be overhauled , and imparting skill training to students in schools and colleges 
as a compulsory subject be incorporated . 

Although every citizen is faced with the problem of unemployment at his own level 
and has to confront with the stress of a fast changing society, the ex - servicemen feel it very 
painfully for a variety of reasons. Their problemsbecomehighly peculiar and specialised as 
they are made to leave a job at an age when the social responsibilities of an ex -serviceman 
are at its peak . He is out of job when his children are growing or in school. His income, 
benefits and privileges are reduced to bare minimum at a time when he requires them the 
most. Lack of entrepreneurial skills and unfamiliarity with the business/corporate world 
makes it difficult for him to get a second job to support his family . 

Gainful employability through skilled trades needs to be embraced by the wider Indian 
public given the respectability and opportunity it deserves, for true change to be brought 
about. 

Hence this Bill . 


SUPRIYA SULE 


NEW DELHI; 
January 15, 2018. 


128 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for setting up of training centres in each State to impart 
skill training to individuals . Clause 4 provides for free hostel, meal and equipment facilities 
for individuals in the training centres. Clause 5 provides for organising job fairs, internship 
modules, and assessment and counselling sessions . Clause 6 provides for reservation of 
ex -servicemen in the skill training centres and in jobs under the State. The Bill, therefore , if 
enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India. It is estimated that a 
sum of rupees one thousand crore would be involved as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees one thousand crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 10 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


129 


Bill No. 76 OF 2018 


A Bill to create awareness among women and adolescent girls regarding menstrual 
hygiene, safe usage and disposal of sanitary napkins, easy access of affordable 
sanitary napkins to women in villages and remote areas and promotion of 

use of biodegradable napkins and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted in the Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India 
as follows: 

1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Menstrual Hygiene Management (Awareness and Short title , 
Affordable Sanitary Napkins Distribution ) Act, 2018 . 

extent and 

commencement. 
( 2 ) It shall extend to the whole of India . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

Definitions . 
(a) " adolescent" means a young person in the process ofdeveloping from child 
into an adult; 


130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(b ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

( c ) " biodegradable " means a substance or object capable of being decomposed 
by bacteria or other living organisms and thereby avoiding pollution ; 

(d ) " counselling " means the provision of professional assistance and guidance 
in resolving personal or psychological problems; 

(e) " educational institution " means a place where persons of different ages gain 
education , including pre - schools , childcare , primary or elementary schools , secondary 
or high schools and universities ; 

(1) " event" includes seminars, workshops and awareness compaigns; 

(8) "menstrual hygiene management" meanswomen and adolescent girls using 
a clean menstrual managementmaterial to absorb or collectblood that may be changed 
in privacy as often as necessary for the duration of the menstruation period , using 
soap and water for washing the body as required , and having access to facilities to 
dispose of used menstrualmanagement materials; 

(h ) " non - biodegradable" means the substance or object not capable of being 
broken down by the action of living organisms; 

(i) " notification" means notification as published by the Official Gazette ; 
(j) " prescribed " means as prescribed by the rules under this Act; 

(k ) " sanitary napkin " means pad of absorbent material used by women during 
menstruation period ; and 

(1) " synthetic napkin " means sanitary napkins made by chemical synthesis, 
especially to imitate a natural product. 

3. The appropriate Government shall take such steps , as may be necessary, for creating 
awareness among the females and adolescent girls about menstrual hygiene management 
through the means ofmass media and by organising such events as it deem fit in classes, 
seminars and counselling sessions in every Government and private educational institution 
in the villages and remote areas regarding hygienic menstrual practices to be followed . 

4 . The appropriate Government shallmake available biodegradable sanitary napkins in 
the villages at affordable price in schools and college premises designated by the appropriate 
Government. 


Creating 
awareness 
about 
menstrual 
hygiene 
management. 
Availability of 
sanitary 
napkins in 
villages at 
affordable 
price . 


5 . The appropriate Government shall provide for sale of sanitary napkins in all retailers 
outlet in villages and remote areas at affordable rates for easy access . 


Sale of 
sanitary 
napkins in 
villages and 
remote areas. 


Manufacturing 
and usage of 
biodegradable 
sanitary 
napkin . 


6 . The appropriate Government shall promote manufacturing and usage of 
biodegradable sanitary napkins to counter the effect of non -biodegradable waste generated 
hy synthetic napkins. 
by synthetic napkins. 


Construction 

7 . The appropriate Governmentshall ensure construction and availability of toilets for 
of toilets for female in every Government and private educational institutions. 
female in 
educational 
institutions . 
Central 

8 . The Central Government shall give directions to the State Government regarding 
Government to safe disposal of sanitary napkins to avoid their littering in public and residential places and 
issue direction 
to the State 

for the health and safety of public in general. 
Government. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


131 


9. The Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by the Parliament by Central 
law in this behalf, provide adequate funds, from time to time, to the State Governments for the Government 
effective implementation of the provisions of this Act. 

to provide 
adequate fund . 


10 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Act not in 
law for the time being in force . 

derogation of 

other law . 
11. ( 1) The appropriate Governments may,by notification in the OfficialGazette , make Power to 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

make rules. 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act by the CentralGovernment shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before each House ofParliament or the Legislative Assembly and the 
Legislative Council, as the case may be, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days 
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before 
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions 
aforesaid ,both House agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree 
that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified 
form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or 
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that 
rule . 


(3 ) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before the State Legislature . 


132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Only in seven of India s thirty -six States and Union territories did ninety per cent. or 
more women in the fifteen to twenty - five age group use hygienic protection during 
menstruation , according to the latest national health data . Not even fifty per cent. women 
used clean methods of dealing with menstrual hygiene in eight States and Union territories 
according to the National Family Health Survey -4 (NFHS ), released in 2015 - 16 . This is the 
dark reality behind all the talks of women empowerment. Even now , women are considered 
" impure " during their period, subjected to social, religious and cultural restrictions. This 
shame around menstruation also forces girls to opt out of school once they reach puberty, 
impending the growth of female literacy in India . In rural India, twenty -three per cent. of girls 
have listed menstruation as the chief reason for dropping out of school. 

Reproductive Tract Infections (RTIS ) are extremely common among women that they 
are reported to affect one - third of women of reproductive age around the world , according to 
a report by the World Health Organization (WHO ). Sexually transmitted infections (of which 
RTI is a significant contributor) are also classified among the " top five disease categories," 
by WHO . The risk of women contracting RTIs are high in rural India , where , in the absence 
of toilets in villages , access to sanitation is till limited .Sanitary pads are either too expensive 
or unavailable for women in many parts of India . And unless we provide awareness to 
women , remove the stigma, increase accessibility to affordable products ; we are not solving 
the problem in its entirety . 

Non -biodegradable sanitary napkins pose a huge challenge in India , where disposal 
system are largely missing in rural areas . According to census 2011 population data , 
336 million girls and women in India experience menstruation and it can be safely estimated 
that about 121 million girls and women are currently using locally or commercially produced 
disposable sanitary napkins. The end result is that a staggering one billion non -compostable 
pads are landing up in urban sewers, landfills , as well as in rural fields and water bodies in 
India every month which takes years to decompose. The lack of disposal treatment options 
may lead to unsafe management of a mammoth volume ofmenstrual waste, which affects the 
health of those living in the areas that the waste is disposed of, as well as negatively 
affecting the water cycle in the area . 

Menstruation is still a taboo subject in India and the lack of first-hand understanding 
of the experience of menstruation by most policy makers means that it has not received the 
requisite importance it deserves when it comes to framing policy. There is need to provide 
information to women and adolescent girls regarding how frequently one should change 
sanitary napkins and what is the proper methods to dispose of them . They need somewhere 
private to change sanitary cloths or pads; clean water and soap for washing their hands, 
bodies and reusable cloths; and facilities for safely disposing of used materials or a clean 
place to dry them if reusable. To avoid staggering amount of non - degradable waste generated 
by using synthetic sanitary pads, there is need to promote manufacturing and usage of 
biodegradable pads. There is also a need for both men and women to have a greater awareness 
of good menstrual hygiene practices . 


Hence this Bill . 


SUPRIYA SULE 


NEW DELHI; 
February 6 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


133 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for creating awareness regarding menstrual hygiene 
management. It also provides for organising seminars and counselling sessions in educational 
institutions . Clause 4 provides for availability of affordable sanitary napkins in villages and 
remote areas as well as in the schools and colleges Clause 5 provide for sale of sanitary 
napkins at retail outlets at affordable price. Clause 6 provides for manufacturing of 
biodegradable sanitary napkins. Clause 7 provides for construction of toilets in educational 
institutions. Clause 9 provides the Central Government shall provide funds to the State 
Governments for the effective implementation of the Act. The Bill, therefore , if enacted , will 
involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees 
one thousand crore would be involved as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees five hundred crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation 
of legislative power is of a normal character. 


134 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 125 OF 2018 


A Bill to constitute an Anganwadi Workers Welfare Authority to provide for performance 
based pay to anganwadi workers and helpers, regularise their employment, recognise 
the unpaid work done by anganwadi workers and protect their right to financial 

entitlement, increase their wages and index them to inflation , provide for 
penalty to be paid to workers in case of delay in the payment of their 

monthly wages, redefine their job role and increase their 
responsibilities, make affordable healthcare accessible 

to anganwadi workers, helpers and their families 
through health insurance scheme and healthcare 
coupons, provide for paid maternity leave , 

social security and pension benefits to 
anganwadi workers, improve access to 
education among children of anganwadi 
workers through scholarships and 
reservations, provide for quota in 
all government jobs for children 
of anganwadiworkers and for all 
matters connected therewith 

or incidental thereto . 
WHEREAS the 45th Indian Labour Conference has recommended recognition of scheme 
for workers (including anganwadiworkers under the Integrated Child Development Services 
Scheme) as regular workers stipulating them with minimum wages and social security benefits ; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


135 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Anganwadi Workers ( Empowerment and Welfare ) 
Act, 2018 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3 ) It shall comeinto force on such date , as the CentralGovernmentmay , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " anganwadi worker" means a woman employed to provide additional and 
supplementary healthcare and nutritional services to children and pregnant women 
under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme (ICDS Scheme) ; 


Definitions. 


(b ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State or a Union territory 
having legislature , the concerned State Government or the Union territory Government, 
as the case may be , and in all other cases, the Central Government ; 

( c) " Authority " means the Anganwadi Workers Empowerment and Welfare 
Authority constituted under section 3 ; 

(d ) " placement agency " means any agency or contractor, whether registered or 
otherwise , engaged in the placementof children of anganwadi workers with prospective 
private employers; and 

(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by the rules made under this Act. 
3. ( 1) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification , Constitution 

of the 
appoint, there shall be constituted , an Authority to be known as the Anganwadi Workers 

Anganwadi 
Empowerment and Welfare Authority. 

Workers 

Empowerment 
( 2) The Authority shall consist of — 

and Welfare 
( a ) the Union Minister of Women and Child Development — ex -officio , A 
Chairperson ; 

(b ) the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare — ex -officio , 
Vice - Chairperson ; 

(c) the Director General of Health Services,Union Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare — ex -officio member ; 

(d ) the Secretaries of the Union Ministries of Women and Child Development, 
Health and Family Welfare and Statistics and ProgrammeImplementation — ex -officio 
members; 


Author 


(e ) the Chairperson , National Commission for Women — ex -officio member ; 

(f) the Director, National Institute of Health and Family Welfare — ex -officio 
member; 

(3 ) The Central Government shall appoint such number of officers and staff as it 
considers necessary for the efficient functioning of the Authority . 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms of conditions of services of 
officers and staff of the Authority shall be such as may be prescribed . 

4 . ( 1) The Authority shallmeet at such times and places and shall observe such rules Meetings of 
of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings as may be prescribed . the Authority . 

(2 ) The expenditure incurred to attend meetings by the members referred to in 
sub -clauses (a ) to (f) of section 3 , shall be borne by their concerned controlling 
authorities . 


136 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Functions of 
the Authority. 


5 . The Authority shall, under guidance of the appropriate Government, 

(a) formulate a comprehensive policy for welfare of Anganwadi workers ; 

(b ) forward such information as it may deem necessary to departments of the 
State Governments ; 

(c ) undertake a baseline study to collect comprehensive data about anganwadi 
workers and their families, nutritional and health status of children (below six years of 
age ) and pregnant women within one year of its establishment; and 

(d ) formulate a policy to redefine responsibilities of anganwadi workers and 
anganwadi helpers to include , but not limited to , participation in health screening 
programs for especially cancer in women , public awareness activities for all sectors of 
health , sanitation , education , road safety and any other such service , within one year 
of its establishment; and 

(e ) discharge such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Central 
Government: 

Provided that the roles and responsibilities of anganwadi workers and anganwadi 
helpers, prescribed under clauses (c) and (d ) shall be in addition to the functions already 
carried out by them under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme (ICDS Scheme). 

6 . ( 1) The Authority shall recommend to the Central Government to regularise the 
service of anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers and confer the status of permanent 
Government employees on such workers and helpers. 

(2 ) The Authority shall, in consultation with the State Governments, decide the formula 
and criteria for determination of wages of anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers: 

Provided that the wages and other incentives including bonus to be paid anganwadi 
workers and anganwadi helpers shall be directly linked to the improved nutritional status of 
children and pregnant women under their care : 

Provided further that the wages of anganwadi workers and helpers shall be indexed to 
market inflation . 


Regularisation 
of 
employment 
of anganwadi 
workers and 
anganwadi 
helpers . 


7 . ( 1) The appropriate Governmentshall pay interest at such rate as may be determined 
for any delay in — 


Penalty to be 
paid by the 
appropriate 
Government 
for delay in 
payment of 
wages and 
transfer of 
funds to 
anganwadi 
centres . 


( a ) payment of wages and performance related bonuses to be paid to the 
anganwadiworkers and anganwadi helpers ; and 

(b ) transfer offunds to anganwadi centres for providing nutritional supplements 
to children , pregnant women and its normal functioning : 

Provided that if the delay is in the payment of CentralGovernment share of wages to 
the anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers or its contribution to the anganwadi centres , 
then the Central Government shall pay monthly interest at the rate of twenty per cent, on its 
wage share for the entire delay period : 

Provided further that if the delay is in the payment of State Government s share of 
wages to the anganwadi workers and helpers or its contribution to the anganwadi centres, 
then the respective State Government shall pay monthly interest at the rate of fifteen per 
cent. on its wage share for the entire delay period : 

Provided also that where the delay in payment of the CentralGovernment and the State 
Government share is more than a month then the interest shall be compounded monthly . 

8 . (1 ) In cases of vacancies in posts of supervisors , workers or helpers at the anganwadi 
centres, and where the existing workers or helpers are burdened with performing additional 
responsibilities of the posts lying vacant, such workers or helpers shall be paid additional 
salary for undertaking such additional work . 


Vacancies in 
posts at 
anganwadi 
centres and 
joint 
responsibilities . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


137 


(2 ) In case of delay in the payment of additional salary under sub - section (1), the 
provisions of payment of interest as mentioned under section 7 shall apply. 

( 3) The appropriate Government shall fill the vacancy within two months from the date 
on which such post becomes vacant. 

9. (1 ) The Authority shall impart pre- service and in -service training to anganwadi Training of 
workers and anganwadi helpers and also initiate capacity building programme for such 

Anganwadi 

Workers and 
workers and helpers to enable them to carry out their responsibilities in the best possible 

Anganwadi 
way . 

Helpers and 

computerisation 
(2 ) The training under sub -section (1) shall include 

of health 

records . 
(a ) training in maintenance of health and nutritional records of children , pregnant 
and lactating women in digital form ; and 

(b ) bimonthly training in digital and medical technologies . 
10. The appropriate Government shall — 

Healthcare 

facilities and 
(a ) provide qualitative and affordable healthcare to anganwadiworkers and their coupons for 
families including their spouse , children and parents. 

families of 

anganwadi 
(b ) provide healthcare coupons to anganwadi workers that may be redeemed for workers and 

helpers . 
free healthcare in private hospitals . 

11 . (1 ) The anganwadiworkers and anganwadi helpers shall be entitled to paid maternity Maternity 
leave. 

benefits to 

anganwadi 
(2 ) The cost of paid maternity leave shall be borne by the appropriate Government on workers and 
the basis of the cost sharing ratio on which the monthly wages are paid. 

helpers. 
12 . The anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers shall be entitled to pension and Pension and 
other social security benefits , to be paid by the appropriate Government, on the basis of the 

social security 

benefits to 
cost sharing ratio on which wages are paid . 

anganwadi 
workers and 
helpers . 


and 


13 . ( 1) The Central Government shall provide scholarship to children of anganwadi Scholarships 
workers and helpers till completion of their school education . 

reservation in 
( 2 ) The Central Government shall, in consultation with the State Government, reserve schools and 
five per cent. of seats in all Government schools and colleges in favour of children of colleges to 

children of 
anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers . 

anganwadi 
workers and 

helpers. 
14 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall reserve three per cent. of jobs in the public sector Reservation in 
in favour of children of anganwadi workers . 

public sector 

jobs to 
(2 ) The Central Government shall , in consultation with the Authority, determine the children of 
relevant principles and criteria for providing reservation in favour of children of anganwadi anganwadi 

workers . 
workers helpers in job under the State. 

15 . The Authority shall, in consultation with the appropriate Government, constitute Constitution 
a Placement Agency to engage the children of anganwadi workers with prospective private of Placement 

Agency . 
employers . 

16 . The State Government shall direct supervisors and Child Development Project Monthly 
Officers to visit the anganwadi centres and families of anganwadiworkers every month , and supervision of 
submit a report to the appropriate Government apprising the working conditions of anganwadi 

centres and 
workers and anganwadi helpers alongwith benefits being provided under welfare schemes 

report 
and policies formulated under this Act and the functioning of the anganwadi centres in such submission by 
manner as may be prescribed . 

Child 
Development 
Project 
Officers . 


anga 


wadi 


138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Benefits to 
anganwadi 
workers over 
and above the 
present 
benefits . 


17 . The health , education , employment and such other welfare measures to be provided 
to anganwadi workers and helpers under this Act shall be in addition to the benefits already 
available to such workers and helpers . 


Annual report 
and its laying 
before the 
Parliament. 


18 . ( 1) The Authority shall prepare once every year, as may be prescribed , an annual 
report giving the summary of its activities, including schemes implemented , recommendations 
made to the appropriate Government and statements of its annual accounts and submit the 
same to the Central Government. 


(2 ) The Central Government shall cause the annual report of the Authority to be laid , 
before each House of Parliament within a period of one year from the date of receipt of such 
report. 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds. 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties. 


19 . The Central Government shall , from time to time, after due appropriation made 
by Parliament by law in this behalf , provide requisite funds for carrying out the purposes of 
this Act. 

20 . If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government, in consultation with the State Governments, may make such order or give such 
direction , not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appears to it to be necessary or 
expedient for the removal of any difficulty : 


Power to 
make rules. 


Provided thatno such orders shall be made after the expiry of the period of three years 
from the date of commencement of this Act. 

21 . (1 ) The Central Governmentmay, by notification in OfficialGazette, make rules for 
carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament or, as the case may be , each House of the State Legislature , 
while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session 
or two or more successive sessions, and if , before the expiry of the session immediately 
following the session or the successive , sessions aforesaid , Parliament or, as the case may 
be , the State Legislature agrees in making any modification in the rule or agrees that the rule 
should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the case may be; so , however,that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


139 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Healthcare workers are an important link between the healthcare providers and 
community , and are instrumental in raising awareness about health related risks, especially in 
rural areas . Study undertaken about functioning of the anganwadi centres proved that 
interventions by anganwadiworkers and helpers can help in early detection and appropriate 
management of preventable childhood disabilities likemalnutrition . 

Asper the National Family Health Survey (NFHS ), the malnutrition in children (below 
five years of age) reduced to 35.7 per cent. in NFHS-4 , compared to 42.5 per cent. in NFHS-3 . 
Anganwadi sevikas who work at the grassroot level are major contributors for this reduction 
in malnutrition . Anganwadi workers are responsible for actual delivery of healthcare and 
education services under the Government s Integrated Child Development Services Scheme 
(ICDS scheme). The National Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) Policy of the 
Central Government notified in the year 2013 , envisaged anganwadi centres as vehicles of 
ECCE service delivery. Anganwadi sevikas undertake a range of crucial functions and are 
responsible for conducting real time monitoring of malnutrition among children and lactating 
mothers, organise immunization drive along with Auxiliary Nurse Midwife ( ANM ),maintain 
growth monitoring charts to track and assess the nutrition status of children , maintain 
records (including registrations of births and deaths), provide pre - school and health 
education , distribute supplementary nutrition , undertake health check -ups and referral 
services among others. 

The importance of anganwadis is also reflected in the renaming of ICDS Scheme as 
Anganwadi Services Scheme. The anganwadi sevikas are equipped with increasing 
responsibilities over the years. Under Access to Justice project, the anganwadis also aid in 
facilitating access of legal services to marginal communities. As per the Centre for Equity 
Studies Report, the burden of non - ICDS work on the anganwadi workers was high , as 
reflected in the percentage of anganwadiworkers mobilised for other non - ICDS work . For 
instance , in 2014 , 17 per cent of anganwadi workers were mobilised for panchayat related 
work , 46 per cent, for pulse polio , 42 per cent, for election work and 22 per cent. for other 
work . Thus, on an average 63 per cent of the anganwadi workers weremobilised for non 
ICDS work in 2014 . There is need to increase the role and responsibilities of anganwadi 
workers by including participation in health screening programs for especially cancer in 
women , public awareness activities for all sectors of health , sanitation , education , road 
safety, among others . Despite the importance of the functions they perform and their ever 
increasing responsibilities, they are not entitled to any wages but are paid a meager amount 
ofhonorarium by the Central and the State Governments as per the cost sharing ratio . While 
a respective State s contribution to the honorarium varies, the CentralGovernment pays its 
share ofmonthly honorarium to the anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers at the rate of 
Rs. 3,000 /- and Rs. 1,500 /- respectively. Recognition of the relatively unpaid care work done 
by women anganwadi workers and right to financial entitlements, job security and other 
employment related benefits is also required. The 45th Indian Labour Conference has also 
recommended the recognition of this schemeworkers ( including anganwadis under Integrated 
Child Development Services Scheme) as regular workers stipulating them with minimum 
wages and social security benefits . 

In context of their changing responsibilities and roles, there is need to regularise 
anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers and confer the status of permanent Government 
employees to them . The payment and bonuses are required to be based on the nutritional 
status of children , rather than keeping them fixed . As per the research undertaken by Bill and 
Melinda Gates Foundation , the performance pay and bonuses paid to healthcare workers 
based on the nutritional status of children in their care , proved to be effective in improving 
the nutritional status of children , compared to fixed bonuses. While this initiative reduced 
the prevalence of underweight among children five percentage points , height of the children 
increased by one centimeter, in a short span of three months. 


140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


The wages paid to the anganwadi workers and helpers shall be indexed to inflation .As 
per the Progress of Children Under Six Report , 2016 released by the Centre for Equity 
Studies , 35 per cent of the anganwadiworkers were not paid their wages on time. To counter 
the problem of delay in wages to anganwadi workers and budget for buying nutritional 
supplements at anganwadi centres, a monthly interest at the rate of 20 per cent. and 
15 per cent. respectively on the delayed amount for the entire period of delay should be paid 
by the Central and the State Governments . The interest shall be compounded , if the delay 
period is more than a month . 

To deal with the issue of vacancies in posts at anganwadi centres and the resulting 
work overload, the provision for payment of wages for both positions to the anganwadi 
performing tasks related to both posts has to be made and any delay in payment shall be 
subject to penalty conditions. 

Also participation of anganwadiworkers in the health screening programs is necessary . 
The Medical Research Institutes in India undertook health screening program involving the 
anganwadi workers by training them of the risks of cancer and various tests for cancer. This 
has shown positive results with the number of people attending the health care camps for 
screenings, followed by diagnosis and treatment increased , especially for cancer screening 
among Indian women . To keep the workers up to date with the evolving technologies , 
frequent pre -service and in -service training and capacity building programme is required . 
The compulsory computerisation of health records and requisite training and technology for 
the same is also necessary . 

Qualitative and affordable healthcare to anganwadi sevikas through healthcare 
couponswhich can be redeemed for free healthcare at private hospitals is required which can 
be availed by these anganwadi workers and their spouse, children and parents. These 
anganwadi sevikas shall also be entitled to get paid maternity leave , the cost of which shall 
be shared by both the Central and the State Governments in the same cost sharing ratio as 
the wages. The provisions of pension after the retirement and other social security benefits 
to be paid to Anganwadi workers and helpers by the Government to overcome the pitiable 
conditions of the anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers. Also to provide access to 
education , scholarships to children of anganwadi workers till their completion of school 
education shall also be granted . Further, provision of reservation of atleast five per cent. of 
seats in all Government schools and colleges, 3 per cent. of jobs in the public sector for 
children of anganwadi workers and helpers be made. Placement Agency is required to be 
constituted to engage children of anganwadis with prospective private employers. Monthly 
supervision of anganwadi centres and anganwadi household by Child Development Project 
Officers (CDPOs) to ascertain whether the benefits which are in addition to the services 
allocated to them under the present ICDS scheme to anganwadi workers families are being 
realized or not. 

The Bill ,therefore , champions for the rights and welfare of the anganwadiworkers and 
anganwadi helpers by mandating the Government to allocate the anganwadi workers and 
anganwadi helpers their due share of entitlements viz, wages and bonuses , healthcare and 
education services, pension and social security benefits. 

Hence this Bill. 


SUPRIYA SULE 


NEW DELHI; 
July 2 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


141 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of the Anganwadi Workers 
Empowerment and Welfare Authority . It also provides appointment of such number of officers 
and staff for its functioning . Clause 4 provides formeetings of the Authority to observe rules 
of procedure for transaction of business . Clause 8 provides for additional salary to the 
anganwadi workers for undertaking additional responsibilities. Clause 9 provides for training 
of anganwadiworkers and helpers. Clause 10 provides for affordable healthcare services and 
coupons to anganwadiworkers and anganwadi helpers. Clause 11 provides for paid maternity 
leave to anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers. Clause 12 provides for pension and 
social security benefits to the anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers. Clause 13 provides 
for scholarships and reservation in educational institutions and in job in public sector in 
favour of children of anganwadi workers and helpers. Clause 15 provides for constitution of 
a Placement Agency to engage children of anganwadi workers and anganwadi helpers with 
prospective private employers. Clause 19 makes it obligatory for the Central Governmentto 
provide requisite funds for carrying out the purposes of this Bill. The Bill, therefore, if 
enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a 
recurring expenditure of five thousand crore rupees would be involved per annum . 


A non -recurring expenditure to the tune ofrupees two hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 21 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


142 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 48 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for compulsory first aid training to students in schools in the country . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India 
as follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Compulsory First-Aid Training in Schools Act, 2018 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


(3 ) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


143 


Definitions. 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires — 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 


(b ) " first- aid " means emergency care or treatment given to an ill or injured person 
before regular medical aid may be obtained ; 

(c) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 
(d ) " school" means — 

(i) a school established , owned or controlled by the appropriate 
Government or a local authority or a Non -Governmental Organisation ; or 

(ii) an aided school receiving aid or grants to meet whole or part of its 
expenses from the appropriate Government or the local authority or a 
Non -Governmental Organisation ; or 

(iii) an educational institution managed by a private entity, society or a 
trust, 
which imparts education at elementary, secondary or senior secondary level. 

3 . From such date, as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Compulsory 
Gazette specify , training of first-aid shall be compulsorily imparted in all schools . 

training of 
First - Aid in 

schools. 
4 . (1) The appropriate Government shall, include compulsory First -Aid training in Compulsory 
theory and practical of the curriculum from ninth to the twelfth standard irrespective of F 

training. 
stream of study selected by the student. 


First- Aid 


(2 ) The appropriate Government shall evaluate the curriculum regarding first- aid training 
from time to time and also issue necessary directions to schools within its jurisdiction . 

5 . The appropriate Governmentshall issue certificates to all students who successfully 
complete first-aid training . 


Appropriate 
Government 
to issue 
Certificates. 


6 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in 
this behalf, provide adequate funds to the State Governments of carrying out the purposes 
of this Act. 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds 


7. The Central Government shall issue such directions to the State Government or, as Power to issue 

directions. 
the case may be, the local authority, as itmay deem fit for the purposes of implementation of 
the provisions of this Act. 
8 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay , by notification in the Official Gazette , make rules Power to 

make rules . 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act . 

(2 ) Every rules made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Thousands of lives in our country are lost every year, due to lack of trained and skillful 
citizens for providing medical First - Aid to victims of accidents and absence of primary 
healthcare system in many parts of the country . Accidents and emergency situations are not 
always completely preventable or unavoidable . In some situations if the patients do not 
receive basic first -aid immediately their situation may deteriorate rapidly . Without proper 
First- Aid , a simple injury could become severe and in some cases fatalities can occur as a 
result oflack of immediate medical treatment. 

A trained and skillful person in providing medical first-aid becomes more than just 
another bystander, but extends life saving support not only to a victim , but also helps the 
professional emergency responders and medical practitioners . 

In its most basic form , First-Aid is the initial assistance given to a victim of injury or 
illness . Basic First- Aid knowledge is comprised of relatively simple techniques and procedures 
that can be performed with limited equipment and is typically carried out until professional 
medical assistance arrives. First- Aid can and often lessens the severity of an emergency in 
a given time and place . By being able to provide basic care one can stabilize a patient until 
emergency medical services arrives . First- Aid Training teaches how to use basic household 
items as tools if a first-aid kit is not available . While it is natural for most of us to rush to 
support any injured person , a trained person is more reliable , confident and in control of 
himself and his actions while in traumatic situations. 


In our country , training in First- Aid has always been a neglected subject. If compulsory 
First- Aid training is given to students , a wide population of our country shall become trained 
in providing First-Aid services and many lives will be saved in emergency situations. 

Hence this Bill . 


SHIVAJI ADHALRAO PATIL 


NEW DELHI; 
January 17 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


145 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for inclusion of First- Aid training compulsorily in school 
curriculum from ninth to twelfth standard . Clause 5 provides for the CentralGovernment to 
issue certificates to all students who have successfully completed First -Aid Training . Clause 6 
provides that the CentralGovernment shall provide adequate funds to the State Governments 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. The expenditure relating to State Governments 
shall be borne out of the Consolidated Funds of States concerned . The expenditure in 
relation to Union Territories shall be incurred from the Consolidated Fund of India. The Bill , 
therefore , if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India. It is 
estimated that a sum of rupees five hundred crores may involve as recurring expenditure per 
annum . 


A non -recurring expenditure of rupees one hundred crores is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUMREGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 5 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative powers is of a normal character. 


146 


146 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Parl 


Bill No . 39 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Acts, 1960 . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title and 1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Amendment) 
commencement. Act, 2018 . 


( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date, as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 


Amendment of 
section 22 . 


59 of 1960 . 


2 . In section 22 of the Prevention ofCruelty to Animals Act, 1960 , the following proviso 
shall be inserted at the end , namely : 


" Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to conduct of 
bailgada sharyat or bullock cart race in the State of Maharashtra." . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


147 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The bullock cart race or bailgada sharyat, as locally called , is being celebrated 
extensively in the district of Pune and other parts of the State of Maharashtra. This traditional 
festival has a history of being celebrated for the last many centuries . However the bullock 
cart race has been banned by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate 
Change citing provisions ofsection 22 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act, 1960 . The 
Hon ble Supreme Court had also given a similar judgment banning the bullock cart race on 
7th May, 2014 

Keeping in view the sentiments of the people in mind , the State Government of 
Maharashtra passed an amendment Bill legalising bullock cart races in the State . The Bill was 
then sent for the kind approval of the President of India . The President has assented to the 
same. However , this could not be implemented with the intervention of the High Court of 
Bombay on an appeal by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Thus, the people of 
Maharashtra are still deprived of the celebrations of their festival and cultural heritage . 

These bullock cart races or bailgada sharyat functions consist of taming of bulls as a 
part ofancientculture and tradition of the Maharashtrians. At present, there is no legislation 
to regulate the conduct of bullock cart race or bailgada sharyat or any such activity involving 
the taming of bulls. Unless the necessary amendments are made to the Central Act, the 
bullock cart races could not be conducted lawfully . 


The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the Prevention ofCruelty Act, 1960 with a view to 
permit exhibition and training of bulls for bullock cart races or bailgada sharyat in the State 
of Maharashtra . 


Hence this Bill. 


SHIVAJI ADHAL RAO PATIL 


NEW DELHI; 
January 17 , 2018 . 


148 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Short title and 
commencement. 


Bill No . 43 OF 2018 
A Bill further to amend the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year ofthe Republic of India as follows: 
1. (1) This Act may be called the Maternity Benefit ( Amendment) Act , 2018 . 

(2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2 . In section 3 of the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the principal 53 of 1961. 


Amendment 


of section 3 . 


Act ), — 


(a ) after clause (c ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely: 

" (ca ) doctor means registered gynaecologist practicing in registered 
hospital ormaternity centre of the appropriate Government;” ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


149 


(b ) after clause (g ), the following clauses shall be inserted , namely : 

“ (8) ‘ laboratory meansregistered laboratory having facility ofpathology 
tests , blood tests , ultrasounds and related facilities ;” ; and 
(c) after clause (k ) the following clauses shall be inserted , namely: 

" (ka ) pregnant woman means a woman who at the time of pregnancy has 
either no living child or only one living child ; and 

“ (kb) “pregnancy period means period of time before delivery ;" . 
3. After section 4 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted , namely :- 


Insertion of 
new section 
4A . 


Benefit . 


“ 4A . ( 1) Every pregnant woman during the pregnancy period shallbe entitled to Right to Pre 
avail half day paid leave as pre -meternity benefit for every routine health check - up or Maternity 
undergoingmedical tests prescribed by a doctor subjectto a maximum of five half days 
paid leave in a month : 

Provided that if a pregnantwoman undergoesmedical tests prescribed by doctor 
on the day of routine health check - up , such woman shall be eligible to avail two half 
days paid leave on the same day. 

( 2 ) Every pregnant women entitled to payment of pre -maternity benefit under 
sub - section (1) shall furnish the prescription ofdoctor and payment receipt of laboratory 
to avail the benefit.” . 


4 . After section 21 of the principalAct, the following section shall be inserted , namely: 


Insertion of 
new section 
21A . 


“ 21A . If any employer contravenes the provisions of section 4A , he shall be Penalty for 
punishable with imprisonment which shall not be less than three months but which not providing 

pre -maternity 
may extend to one year and with fine which shall not be less than two thousand rupees 

benefit . 
but which may extend to five thousand rupees.” . 


150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Every pregnancy is special and every pregnant woman should receive special care . 
Any pregnant woman can develop life-threatening complications with little or no advance 
warning , so all pregnant women need access to quality antenatal services to detect and 
prevent life - threatening complications during childbirth . 

With the implementation of several schemes and campaigns like Pradhan Mantri 
Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan mortality rate has reduced during pregnancy and delivery, but 
the goal of safe mother and safe child is yet to be achieved . In our country Maternity Benefit 
Act, 1961 was enacted to provide benefits of continous paid leave pre and post delivery. But 
this Act doesn t cover the paid leave required by a pregnant woman for regular visits for 
health checkups and for other related services. In many cases , many working pregnant 
women either defer or do not go for regular checkups as they cannot afford half day or day 
off or they are denied leaves to undergo visit to doctor. 

As per latest data of the Rapid Survey on Children ( 2013 - 14 ), the institutional deliveries 
in India are 78 .7 per cent. Inspite of this massive increase in the number of pregnant women 
coming to institutions for delivery, till date only 61. 8 per cent. women receive first ANC IN 
FIRST trimester (RSOC ) and the coverage of full ANC is as low as 19 .7 per cent. (RSOC ). 

Despite availability of treatment guidelines,mechanisms for monitoring and supportive 
supervisions, regular training of healthcare providers at different levels across the country , 
MaternalMortality Rate with MMR of 167 per 1,00 ,000 live births still remains. Timely detection 
of risk factor during pregnancy and childbirth can prevent deaths due to five preventable 
causes. In this context to build a healthy India and to save working mothers life and safe 
delivery, it is necessary to provide paid leave to working pregnant woman of our country. 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 with a view to 
provide for half day paid leave as pre -maternity benefit to every pregnant woman for every 
routine health check -up or undergoing medical tests prescribed by a doctor subject to a 
maximum of five half days paid leave in a month . 


Hence this Bill . 


SHIVAJI ADHALRAO PATIL 


NEW DELHI; 
January 17, 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


151 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provide for half day paid leave as pre-maternity benefit to every 
pregnant woman for every routine health check -up or undergoing medical tests prescribed 
by a doctor subject to amaximum of five half days paid leave in a month . The Bill, therefore, 
if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India. It is estimated that 
a sum of rupees five hundred crore may involve as recurring expenditure per annum . 


No non -recurring expenditure is likely to involve. 


152 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 88 OF 2018 


Short title and 
extent. 


A Bill to provide for compulsory establishment of medical centres in schools to promote 
positive health , prevention and treatment of common diseases among 

students and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Compulsory Establishment of Medical Centres in 
Schools Act, 2018 . 

(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
2 . In this Act, unless for context otherwise requires, - 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(b ) " doctor " means a medical practitioner registered with the Medical Council of 
India ; 

(c) " prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 


Definitions. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


153 


(d ) " school" means a school run by the CentralGovernment or a State Government 
or a local authority or by an authority designated or sponsored by the appropriate 
Government and includes Government aided school and recognised private school. 

3. ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall , in consultation with the MedicalCouncil of India, Central 
within a period of six months from the commencement of this Act, formulate a universal Government to 
health policy for students in schools. 

formulate 

health policy 
(2 ) The Central Government shall issue guidelines and directions to the State for students in 

schools . 
Governments for providing medical facilities in schools from time to time. 

4 . It shall be the duty of the appropriate Government to ensure that every school, Schools to be 
within its jurisdiction , is fully prepared to follow medical health scheme as prescribed . prepared for 

medical 
emergency 


Appropriate 
Government 
to provide 
certain 
facilities . 


5 . It shall be the duty of the appropriate Government to , 

(a ) appoint a registered medical practitioner and a qualified nurse in every 
school; 

(b ) make provision of a health checkup of students and blood sample collection 
centre in every school; 

(c ) maintain data of health status of students in schools; 

(d ) screen for deficiencies, diseases and disabilities amongst students in 
schools ; 

(e ) make provision of counseling and treatment of students wherever deficiencies 
and diseases are detected ; 

(f) make provision for referral of students wherever required to district First 
ReferralUnit or tertiary hospitals ; 

(g ) create health awareness and inculcate healthy habits among students in 
every school; 

(h ) facilitate continuum of healthcare of students in schools by creating data 
base ; and 


(i) provide facilities of pathological tests and medical treatment to the students 
for the following diseases : 

(i) anemia ; 
(ii) refractive errors; 
( iii ) dental problem ; 


( iv) respiratory infections ; 
(v) gastrointestinal problems; 
(vi) skin diseases ; 
( vii) fever; 
(viii) headache; 
( ix ) injuries; 
(x) nutritional deficiencies; 
(xi) urinary tract infection ; 
(xii) jaundice ; 
(xiii) eye ailments; 


154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(xiv ) gynecological problems; 
(xv ) worm infestations ; 
(xvi) behavior problems; 


(xvii) ear ailments; 
(xviii) weakness or fatigue ; 
(xix ) obesity ; 
( xx ) burns; 
(xxi) thyroid ; 

( xxii) others (animal bites , assault, drug addiction , epilepsy, mental 
retardation ). 
6 . It shall be the duty of the every school to , 

(a ) provide adequate space in school premises for medical facility room where a 
doctor and a qualified nurse shall screen , take blood samples , treat children and shall 
provide consultation to students ; and 


Schools to 
provide 
certain 
facilities. 


(b ) provide facility like computer and internet connectivity to maintain and 
communicate data to appropriate Government and parents of the students . 


Duty of the 
parents . 


7 . It shall be the duty of every parent to apprise the school administration of the 
special medical needs of his child and keep a slip in the school bag of the child mentioning 
the kind ofmedical treatment being taken by such child . 

8 . The appropriate Government shall take steps to ensure that no school charges any 
amount from the parents of students for arranging medical facility for students or refuses 
admission to any child , who is suffering from any disease which is not life threatening. 


Schools not 
to charge 
extra amount 
for arranging 
medical 
facilities. 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds. 


9. The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliamentby law in 
this behalf , provide requisite funds for the purposes of this Act. 


Act to have 
overriding 
effect. 


Power to 
make rules . 


10 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the timebeing in force relating to medical preparedness 
in schools or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act. 

11. (1) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act . 

( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should notbe made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


155 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Children of today are tomorrow s citizen , thus it is extremely important to ensure 
good health for children . Child health plays a vital role in the development of a country . 
Children are the assets for tomorrow s productivity . The growth of any country depends 
on the availability of healthy human resource . Healthy children ensures a healthy adult 
who in turn ensure a sound growth and development of the economy. 


According to the World Health Organisation (WHO ), forty-three per cent. of Indian 
children are underweight. Our country is home to the largest child population in the 
world . A substantial forty -one per cent. i.e. around 450 million of total population are 
children . India accounted almost forty - three per cent. underweight children against thirty 
two per cent. in Pakistan , nine per cent. in South Africa . Nutritional level among the 
children is the basic element of their overall mental and physical development. 
Malnutrition among the children reduced significantly over the time, but still the number 
of malnourished children is very high in the country . Thus, there is a need , to be more 
focused on the child health issues to early detect and cure disease for better health 
opportunity and support to build a better and healthy India. 

The Bill, therefore, seeks to provide for compulsory establishment of medical 
centres in schools to promote positive health in children , provide prevention including 
screening of school children for common diseases , deficiency , early diagnosis and 
treatment. 


SHIVAJI ADHALRAO PATIL 


NEW DELHI; 
February 22 , 2018 . 


156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for the appropriate Government to ensure that every 
school, within its jurisdiction , is fully prepared to follow medical health scheme. Clause 
5 provides that the appropriate Government shall appoint a doctor and a nurse in every 
school. It also provides for provision of health check up, blood sample collection for 
pathological tests and treatment of students suffering with common diseases in every 
school. Clause 9 provides that the Central Government, shall after due appropriation , 
provide adequate funds to the State Governments for the purposes of this Act. The 
expenditure relating to States shall be borne from their respective Consolidated Funds. 
The expenditure relating to Union territories shall be borne from the Consolidated Fund 
of India . The Bill, therefore, if enacted would involve expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure of rupees five hundred 
crore would be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure of rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of this Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the 
delegation of legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


157 


Bill No. 250 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the removal of hunger and malnutrition and for the prevention of 

starvation deaths of tribal children including adolescent and young girls and 
pregnant and lactating women in tribal areas of the country particularly 
in Jharkhand through a nodal agency at the National and State levels , 
by formulating a National policy for the purpose and for matters 

connected therewith and incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Tribal Children and Lactating Women in Jharkhand 
and other States (Removal of Hunger , Malnutrition and Prevention of Starvation Deaths ) 
Act, 2017 . 


Short title and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 


158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions. 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " adolescent girl" means a female human being who has attained puberty and 
is below the age of eighteen years; 

(b ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in other cases the Central Government; 

(c ) " girl child " means a female human being who is below the age of twelve 
years ; 

(d ) " Nodal Agency " means the Nodal Agency constituted under section 4 for 
the purposes of this Act ; 

(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act . 


National 

3 . ( 1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the timebeing in force , 
Policy for the the Central Government shall, as soon as may be, but not later than one year of the 
removal of 

commencement of this Act, formulate and publish in the OfficialGazette , a National Policy 
hunger , 
malnutrition for the overall protection and removal of hunger, malnutrition and prevention of starvation 
and prevention deaths of tribal children and pregnant and lactating tribal women particularly in the tribal 
of starvation areas of Jharkhand and shall take appropriate measures for the uniform implementation of 


deaths of tribal such Policy . 


children and 
lactating 
mothers . 


(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in 
sub - section (1 ), the National Policy may include provision for, 

(a ) conducting surveys , from timeto time of the tribal children , pregnantwomen 
and lactating mothers in the tribal areas of Jharkhand and other parts of the country 
who are malnourished , anaemic and underweight and maintaining district-wise data 
thereof in such manner and with such particulars as may be prescribed ; 

(b ) conducting periodic medical examination of every child including girl child 
and adolescent girls , pregnant as well as lactating mothers covered under this Act and 
for taking such remedialmeasures asmay be recommended by dieticians and medical 
authorities; 

(c ) making it mandatory for the appropriate Government to ensure as well as 
provide at least two healthymeals per day, milk , seasonal fruits , folic acid and multi 
vitamin tablets to every malnourished or anaemic and underweightchildren , girl child , 
pregnant and lactating women covered under this Act; 

(d ) providing medical care to the children and women covered under this Act 
and providing sanitary napkins and proper dresses to adolescent and grown up girls 
covered under this Act by the appropriate Government in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 

4 . ( 1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
constitute a Nodal Agency consisting of a Chairperson , such number of members 
representing various fields, such number of officers and staff as may be prescribed , for the 
purpose of this Act. 

( 2) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service 
of the Chairperson , members , officers and staff of the Nodal Agency and procedure 
to be followed by the Nodal Agency in discharging its functions shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 


Constitution of 
a Nodal 
Agency . 


(3 ) The Nodal Agency shall, — 

(a ) classify tribal areas in each State as high , medium or low burden area with 
regard to malnutrition , anaemia , hunger, starvation deaths and such other issues as 
may be prescribed ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


159 


(b ) identify malnutrition , anaemia , hunger eradication targets and suggest 
measures to overcome the problem of malnutrition , anaemia, hunger cases in tribal 
areas of every State in a time bound manner; and 

(c ) recommend to the Central Government and State Governments having tribal 
areas within their territorial jurisdiction with regard to the implementation of this Act 
and framing of rules and regulations as it may consider necessary. 

5 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation madeby Parliament by law in Central 
this behalf , provide requisite funds, from time to time, to the States and Union territories for Government to 

provide 
carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

requisite funds. 


6 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent Act to have 

overriding 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force . 

effect . 


7 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Act to 
law for the time being in force dealing with the subject matter of this Act. 

supplement 
other laws. 


8 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules Power to make 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

rules . 


( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter, have effectonly in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


160 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Our vastNation , the second most populous in the globe after China has, unfortunately , 
the highest number of malnourished and anaemic children including girl child , adolescent 
girls, women including pregnant and lactating mothers. The problem is more acute in the 
tribal areas of our country . 

In Jharkhand alone, every monsoon over 40 ,000 children slip into malnutrition in tribal 
dominated Santhal Pargana. Due to persistent hunger, anaemia amongst the girl child , 
adolescent girls , pregnant women and lactating mothers is prevalent not only in Santhal 
Pargana but also in almost all the tribal areas of the country . Starvation deaths, though 
generally denied by the Government authorities, are also reported from time to time not only 
in tribal areas of Jharkhand but also from other States too . 

On record there are at least 15 schemes to augment the nutrition of children and 
mothers in Santhal Pargana but on ground, due to lack of funds for these schemes , the road 
out of hunger is paved with failures. Union Ministry of Women and Child Development 
implements Integrated Child DevelopmentServices (ICDS) Schemeto controlmalnourishment 
through Anganwadis but it hardly reaches in tribal areas. 

Hence , it is high time to pay more and concerted attention for the removal of hunger, 
malnutrition , anaemia amongst the children , girl child including adolescent girls , pregnant 
and lactating women in tribal areas of Jharkhand and other parts of the country so as to 
prevent starvation deaths in such areas. 


Hence, this Bill . 


NISHIKANT DUBEY 


NEW DELHI; 
November 27 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


161 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for constitution of a Nodal Agency to identify areas 
affected with malnutrition , anaemia , hunger, starvation deaths and suggest measures to 
overcome the problems in tribal areas . 

Clause 5 ofthe Bill makes it mandatory for the CentralGovernment to provide requisite 
funds for carrying out the purposes of this Bill . The Bill, if enacted , will involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is not possible to quantify the expenditure at this 
stage but it is estimated that a sum of rupees one lakh crore will involve as recurring expenditure 
per annum . 


A non -recurring expenditure of rupees fifty croremay also involve for creating assets 
for implementation of the provisions of this Bill . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of normal character. 


162 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 237 OF 2017 


A Bill to protect individual liberty , right of association , movement and bodily integrity 
and the right of adults to choose their own partners in marriage and to prevent 

victimisation by prohibiting unlawful assemblies and other conducts 
interfering with matrimonial alliances in the name of honour 

and tradition and for the matters connected 

therewith and incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title , 

1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Prevention of Crimes in the name of Honour and 
extent and Tradition and Prohibition of Interference with the Freedom of Matrimonial Alliances 
commencement. Act , 2017 . 


( 2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

(3) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Governmentmay , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


Declaration of 
Rights of 
persons. 


2 . ( 1) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that all persons including young 
persons and women have the following rights 

(a ) right to control their own lives ; 
(b ) right to liberty and freedom of expression ; 
(c ) right of association , movement and bodily integrity ; and 


(d ) right to choose their own partners in marriage or otherwise. 
(2 ) Any action by any person or group of persons that restricts or prevents the 
exercise of the rights referred to in sub -section ( 1 ) shall be an offence under this Act. 


3. (1 ) No person or any group of persons shall gather , assemble or congregate at any Unlawful 
time with the view or intention of condemning any marriage , not prohibited by law , on the Assembly . 
basis that such marriage has dishonoured the caste or community tradition or brought 
disrepute to all or any of the persons forming part of the assembly or the family or the people 
of the locality concerned . 
Explanation . — In this Section , the expression 

(i) marriage shall include a proposed or intended marriage; and 

( ii ) gather , assemble or congregate shallinclude acting in concert through the 
use of any technologicalmeans or mediums. 

(2 ) Such gathering or assembly or congregation shall be treated unlawful and every 
person convening or organising such assembly and every member thereof participating 
therein , directly or indirectly , shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of not less than 
six months but which may extend upto one year and shall also be liable to fine up to ten 
thousand rupees . 

4 . If any person or a group of persons, who is or are members of the family of the Honour 
couple, who has married or intends to marry , or a person or persons acting in concert with , or killing . 
at the behest of, a member of the family or a member of a body or a group of the caste or clan 
or community or caste panchayat (by whatever name called ) or a member of unlawful assembly 
kills a women who has married or intends to marry , or kills the person whom the woman has 
married or intends to marry or kills any person associated with the couple, or abets, participates 
or incites such an act of killing , shall be guilty ofan offence of murder under the Indian Penal 
Code, 1860. 

5 . If any person or a group of persons, who is or are members of the family of the Criminal 
couple , who has married or intends to marry , or a person or persons acting in concert with , or Intimidation . 
at the behest of, a member of the family , or a member of a body or a group of the caste or clan 
or community or caste panchayat (by whatever name called ) or a member of unlawful assembly 
indulges in criminal intimidation of the couple or either of them , or the members of their 
family , or supporters shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of not less than one 
year, which may extend upto three years and shall also be liable to fine up to thirty thousand 
rupees : 

Provided that if the threat be to cause death grievous hurt of the description referred 
to in second part of section 506 of the Indian PenalCode , then the punishment shall extend 
upto seven years of imprisonment instead of three years and fine up to thirty thousand rupees. 

Explanation . — The expression criminal intimidation includes repeated harassment of 
the couple or either of them with the view to pressurise them not to meet or associate with 
each other or live with each other or threatning the couple or either of them or their family or 
any person associated with them or harbouring them of retributive action of any kind 
whatsoever. 


45 of 1860 . 


45 of 1860. 


6 . If any person or a group of persons, who is or are members of the family of the Harassment and 
couple , who hasmarried or intends to marry, or a person or persons acting in concert with , or endangerment 

of Liberty . 


164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


at the behest of, a member of the family , or a member of a body or a group of the caste or clan 
or community or caste panchayat (by whatever name called ) or a member of unlawful assembly 
harasses a woman or her partner, or any person associated with them for exercising the rights 
as mentioned in section 2 or attempts to prevent either one or both of them from exercising 
these rights shall be deemed to have acted in the endangerment of their liberty and such an 
act of endangerment shall be punished with imprisonment for a period of not less than two 
years and extending up to ten years and fine extending up to fifty thousand rupees. 

Explanation . — Endangerment of liberty shall include the acts of social sanctions, 
ostracization or social boycott and shall include , but shall not be limited to the following 
acts , 


(i) declaring the couple , who have married or intends to marry as brother and 
sister provided that they are not the children from the same natural parent and such a 
marriage is recognised by any law or custom for the time being in force ; 

( ii ) bringing to bear pressure on the couple or their families or any person 
associated with them or harbouring them to leave the village or area of residence 
concerned ; 


(iii ) indulging in any conduct which impedes or is likely to impede , access to 
markets, community facilities , places ofworship or any other necessities of life ; 

( iv ) divesting or dispossessing the couple or their families, or any persons 
associated with them or harbouring them of any land or property belonging to them ; 

(v) bringing to bear pressure on the couple , or their families or any person 
associated with them or harbouring them to pay a fine; 


(vi) causing grievous hurt, or injury , or harm to the couple, or either of them , or 
their families, or any persons associated with them or harbouring them ; and 

( vii) any other act or acts of harassment whether physical or mental or 
psychological 

7 . Any two persons who intend to marry or associate with each other may declare their 
age and willingness to marry or associate , orally or in writing ,before any Governmentofficial, 
who shall , on receipt of such information , inform the nearest Police Station and it shall be the 
responsibility of the police to protect the said couple against any offencesmentioned under 
section 3 to 6 of this Act. 


Declaration 
by a couple of 
the intention 
to be 
together. 


2 of 1974 . 


Obligation of 
certain 
persons to 
report an 
offence . 


8 . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code ofCriminal Procedure, 1973 , all 
village officers, including the Sarpanch and such other officers as may be specified by the 
Sub - divisionalMagistrate or DistrictMagistrate in relation to any area , if they have reason 
to believe or have knowledge that any of the offences mentioned under sections 3 to 6 is 
likely to be committed or has been committed shall provide such information to the nearest 
police station forthwith . 


(2 ) Any person who fails to report the commission of an offence under sub -section ( 1) 
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend upto six months 
or with fine or with both . 


Power to 
prohibit 
certain acts 
and taking 
preventing 
measures. 


(3) No person shall incur any liability ,whether civil or criminal, for giving the information 
in good faith for the purpose of sub -section (1 ). 

9 . ( 1) The DistrictMagistrate or the Sub -DivisionalMagistrate shall receive any request 
or information from any person or persons seeking protection from any assembly of persons 
or from members of any family who are likely to or who have been objecting to any lawful 
marriage. 

(2) Where the District Magistrate or the Sub -DivisionalMagistrate receives information 
from any source that there is a likelihood of convening of an assembly openly or in secrecy 


SEC. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


165 


to condemn as objectionable anymarriage proposed or solemnized ,he shall,by order prohibit 
the convening of such assembly and doing of any act towards the commission of any 
offence under this Act by any person in any area specified in the order. 

(3) The District Magistrate or Sub- Divisional Magistrate may take such steps as may 
be necessary to give effect to such order including giving appropriate directions to the 
police authorities concerned . 

(4) The District Magistrate or Sub -Divisional Magistrate shall also take such steps as 
may be necessary to ensure the safety of the persons targeted by an unlawful assembly or 
by any person or a group of persons , who is or are members of the families of the couple , who 
has married or intends to marry, or a person or persons acting in concert with , or at thebehest 
of, a member of the family, or a member of a body or a group of the caste or clan or community 
or caste panchayat (by whatever name called ). 

(5 ) The DistrictMagistrate or the Sub-DivisionalMagistrate shall be in direct supervision 
of the protection and safety of the persons concerned and their protection from any offence 
mentioned in sections 3 to 6 of this Act. 

(6 ) Every official called upon to act in terms of the above provisions shall be accountable 
for their lapses , omissions or failures and the concerned State Governments shall provide for 
and take such action against them as may be deemed fit for their lapses , omissions or failure 
to act. 

10 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 all 
offences under this Act shall be congnizable , non -bailable and non -compoundable. 


2 of 1974 . 


Offences to 
be cognizable , 
non -bailable 
and non 
compoundable . 


11. Where any person is prosecuted for an offence under this Act, the burden of Burden of 
proving that he has not committed the offence shall be on the person being prosecuted . Proof 


12. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Act not in 
law for the timebeing in force . 

derogation of 

any other law . 
13 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette, make rules Power to 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act . 

make rules. 
(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House ofParliament, while it is in session , for a total period ofthirty days, which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the case may be; so , however,that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


166 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Therehasbeen an increase in number of crimesbeing committed against young couples 
intending to marry or having married , in the name of vindicating the honour of the family, 
caste or community. The Hon ble Supreme Court of India in Lata Singh v. State of 
Uttar Pradesh rightly stated that " there is nothing honourable in such crimes, and in fact 
they are nothing but barbaric and shameful acts of murder committed by brutal 
feudal-minded persons." 

These crimes violate the fundamental rights of citizens including the right to life and 
liberty , right to bodily integrity and the freedom of movement and expression . They unduly 
emphasise on framework of honour to control and regulate women s sexuality and their 
marital choices. Such crimes are also in violation of Article 16 ( 1) (b ) of the United Nations 
Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination against Women which provides 
that women should have the right to freely choose a spouse . 

The Indian Penal Code , which is currently invoked to book offenders in cases of 
honour crimes neither covers the entire gamut of illegal actions perpetrated in the name of 
honour, nor provides for adequate provisions for ensuring protection of the consenting 
couple . Therefore , the Law Commission of India , in its Report No. 242 had recommended a 
legal framework to prevent acts endangering the liberty of the couple married or intending to 
marry and their family members . Furthermore, the Hon ble Supreme Court of India , in Arumugam 
Servai v. State of Tamil Nadu had held that the District Magistrate /Collector and SSP /SPs of 
the district as well as other officials concerned should be held accountable for their failure to 
prevent honour crimes . 

Therefore , in view of the need to address the grave concern , the current Bill seeks to 
provide for protecting the right to life and liberty of counsenting adults , prohibition of 
unlawful assemblies , criminal intimidation , harassment, violence and interference in lawful 
matrimonial alliances in the name of honour and tradition and establishes power and 
accountability of District Magistrates and other officials concerned to prevent such crimes. 

Hence , this Bill . 


NISHIKANT DUBEY 


NEW DELHI; 
November 27 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


167 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 13 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of this Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative powers is of a normal character. 


168 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 229 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. This Act may be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act , 2017. 
2. After article 21A ofthe Constitution , the following article shall be inserted ,namely : 


Short title . 


Insertion of 
new article 


21B . 


Right to 
affordable 
housing 


“ 21B . The State shall provide affordable housing to all citizens in such manner 
as the State may , by law , determine .” . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


160 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Housing is a basic human need . It is considered to be vital for human survival and 
essential for socio -economic development. India with a population of over 1.21 billion people , 
is the second most populous nation in the world . According to UN -HABITAT, India is home 
to sixty three per cent of all slum dwellers in South Asia. This amounts to 170 million people , 
seventeen per cent of the world s slum dwellers . India s per capita income although rising , 
ranks 124th in the world. Approximately thirty five per cent of India s population still earns 
rupees sixty or less per day. Census 2011 reported 1.77 million homeless people across India 
or 0 . 15 per cent of the country s total population. 

The right to housing is the right to live in adequate shelter in security , peace and 
dignity. It is not merely having a roof over one s head , rather it requires an accessible 
habitable space that fulfills the basic human needs to personal space, security, adequate 
lighting and ventilation , safe structure, protection from weather besides its location , all at 
reasonable cost. Therefore it is the duty of the State to provide affordable adequate housing 
for all citizens. 

In order to achieve the task , it is felt necessary that a provision should be made in the 
Constitution as part of the fundamental rights for the purpose . The Bill seeks to achieve the 
above objectives. 

Hence this Bill. 


NISHIKANT DUBEY 


NEW DELHI ; 
November 27 , 2017 . 


170 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 2 of the Bill seeks to make affordable housing to all citizens a fundamental right. 
The Bill if enacted will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . However, at 
this stage it willbe difficultto make an estimate of such expenditure, both recurring and non 
recurring. The exact amount can be worked out only when the provisions of the Bill are 
implemented . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


171 


Bill No. 35 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Short title and 
(Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

commencement. 
( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 
2 . In the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (hereinafter Amendment 

of section 2 . 
referred to as the principalAct), in section 2 , — 

(a ) in clause (c), for the words " six to fourteen years " , the words "three to 
eighteen years" shall be substituted ; 


35 of 2009 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(6 ) in clause (n ), after the word " imparting" , the words " pre- school education 
and " shall be inserted . 


Amendment 
of section 3 . 


Amendment 
of section 4 . 


Amendment 
of section 8 . 


3. In section 3 of the principal Act, for the words " six to fourteen years", the words 
" three to eighteen years " shall be substituted . 

4 . In section 4 of the principal Act, for the words " child above six years of age", the 
words " child above three years of age" shall be substituted . 

5. In section 8 of the principal Act, in clause (a ), for the Explanation the following shall 
be substituted namely : 

“ Explanation . — The term " compulsory education ” means obligation of the 
appropriate Government to — 

(i) provide free pre -school education and elementary school education to 
every child of the age of three to eighteen years ; and 

(ii) ensure compulsory admission , attendance and completion of pre -school 
education and elementary education by every child of the age of three to eighteen 

years." 
6 . In section 9 of the principal Act , in clause (d ) for the words " up to the age of fourteen 
years” , the words " up to the age of eighteen years ” shall be substituted . 


Amendment 
of section 9 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


173 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India being the signatory to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child 
(UNCRC ), had committed to Article 28 of the UNCRC ,made it incumbent on the State to 
provide elementary education compulsory and free to all . The foundation of schooling is laid 
in the early years between the ages of three to six years . These early years are regarded as the 
foundation years and critical for mental and emotional development of a child . The age group 
is significant for brain development and sets the foundation for sound and basic learning in 
later years. Hence, it is proposed that minimum age of childern is to be reduced from six to 
three years so that this important age group is covered under the Right of Children to Free 
and Compulsory Act, 2009. Moreover, the existing school system in our country consists 
from elementary to plus two, accordingly , themaximum age of children for free and compulsory 
education be enhanced from fourteen to eighteen years. 


Hence , this Bill. 


NISHIKANT DUBEY 


NEW DELHI; 
January 23, 2018 . 


174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Section 7 of the principalActmakes it obligatory for the Central and State Governments 
to provide funds for carrying out provisions of the Act. The proposed amendments as given 
in clauses of the Bill lowers the entry level age from 6 to 3 years and increases the maximum 
age limit from 14 to 18 years of every child for free and compulsory education , thereby 
increasing the financialburden of the CentralGovernment. The Bill, if enacted ,would involve 
additional expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India and it is very difficult to estimate 
the expenditure at this juncture as the same would depend upon the number of students 
added by the proposed amendment of the Act. 

Nonon - recurring expenditure is likely to be involved . 


Sec . 2 ] 


Suc.2) 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


175 


175 


Bill No. 206 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the imposition of a temporary cess to be levied on the foreign 
country income tax payments of ordinarily non -resident Indian citizens; 
the procedure for dealing with the collection of such cess, and 
to provide for the establishment of a Scholarship and 
Research Fund subject to service obligation and 
for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


CHAPTERI 


PRELIMINARY 


1. (1 ) This Actmay be called the Indian Diaspora and Education Infrastructure ( Brain Short title , 
Drain Cess ) Act , 2017 . 

extent and 


commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions. 


2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 
(a ) " assessee " means 

(i) all non - resident Indian citizens residing or intend to reside in other 
countries, States and territories , notwithstanding of the meaning as defined 
under clause (6 ) of section 6 of the Income Tax Act, 1961; or 


43 of 1961. 


( ii ) non -resident Indian citizens holding a valid work permit , if applicable ; 


or 


( iii) non -resident Indian citizens holding a valid immigrant visa, if 
applicable ; or 

( iv ) non -resident Indian citizens working as part of a contract with foreign 
Governments , entities , and organizations, if applicable ; or 


(v ) every person who is deemed to be an assessee under any provision of 
this Act; or 


( vi) every person who is deemed to be an assessee in default under any 
provision of this Act; 


(b ) " assessment year" means the period of twelve months beginning on the 
1st day of April every year, unless otherwise specified by the Central Government in 
this behalf; 

(c ) " Board " means the Indian National Scholarship and Research Board 
established under section 22 ; 


(d ) " host country " means the country of residence for the assessee in question ; 

(e ) " income" as defined under clause ( 24 ) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and shall 43 of 1961. 
apply to all assessees; 

(f) " Income-tax Officer " means a person appointed to be an Income- tax Officer 
under section 117 of the Income Tax Act, 1961; 

43 of 1961. 


(8 ) " India " means the territory of India as referred to in article 1 of the Constitution , 
its territorial waters, sea -bed and sub -soil underlying such waters, continental shelf, 
Exclusive Economic Zone or any other MaritimeZone as referred to in the Territorial 
Waters , Continental Shelf , Exclusive Economic Zone and other Maritime Zones Act , 
1976 and the air space above its territory and territorial waters ; 

(h ) " resident" means a person defined as resident under clause (42 ) of section 2 
of the Income Tax Act, 1961; 


43 of 1961. 


43 of 1961. 


(i) " non - resident citizens" means all Indian citizens who not defined as " non 
resident" under clause (30) of section 2 of the Income Tax Act, 1961; 

(j) " person " includes individuals ; and 

(k ) " legal immigrant status " refers to , by the assessee , the obtaining of, 
inter alia , the following : - 

(i) work permit ; 
(ii) immigrant visa ; 
( iii) Optional Period of Training (OPT) certificate ; 
(iv ) Government contract; 
(v) private entity contract; 
(vi) private or non -profit organization contract; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


177 


(vii) International organization contract ; 
(viii ) any other visa that allows for full employment; and 

(ix) any other document issued in relation to legal employment in host 
country . 
(2 ) The words and expressions used and not defined in this Act but defined in the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 and the Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets (Imposition of Tax ) 
Act, 2015 shall have the meanings, respectively assigned to them in those Acts. 

CHAPTER II 


43 of 1961. 
22 of 2015. 


BASIS OF CHARGE 


3. ( 1) There shall be charged on every assessee for every assessment year or until the Charge of cess. 
year as provided in this Act, after the commencement of this Act , subject to the provisions of 
this Act, a cess in respect of his total foreign income tax liability of the previous year at the 
rate as provided under section 9 . 

(2 ) The resulting revenue from the levy of the cess asmentioned under sub -section ( 1) 
and as collected by tax authorities under section 12 shall only be used for the purposes and 
in the manner as prescribed under section 24 and section 36 . 

4 . (1 ) Every assessee who is non- resident citizen and is subject to the provisions of Identification 
this Act shall be identified as: 

of non 

resident 
(a ) an assessee who migrate from India to another country, by obtaining legal citizens. 
immigrant status in the host country, through an official document issued by the host 
country , on a temporary or permanent basis , after the commencement of this Act , for 
upto five years since the date of migration ; 

(b ) an assessees income of whom is subject to taxation , notwithstanding section 
6 and 7 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, including any income accrued or is likely to be 
accrued within or outside the territory of India ; 


43 of 1961 . 


(2 ) Every assessee identified under sub- section ( 1) shallbe contacted by the Ministry 
of External Affairs for the execution of the provisions of this Act which shall maintain a 
register of non -resident citizens as per provisions of section 7 : 


Provided that the employees of State Governments and Union territories as per the 
requirements of their job , who leave the territory of India for work related activities and 
Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) shall be excluded from being subject to the provisions of 
this Act: 


Voluntary 
contribution 
to the Funds . 


Provided further that the Central Government shall, by notification in the Official 
Gazette , update or amend the list of persons to be excluded from the provision of this Act at 
any time after the commencement of this Act. 

5. Every citizen , including ordinarily non -resident citizen , notwithstanding their status 
as an assessee ,may voluntarily contribute to the Funds listed under section 24 or the Funds 
or trusts listed under section 8 . 

6 . In the absence of notarized income tax returns filed by the assessee as per 
section 7, the following incomes shall be deemed to be received in the previous year : 

(i) the annual accretion in the previous year to the balance at the credit of an 
employee participating in a recognised provident fund , to the extent provided in rule 6 
of Part A of the Fourth Schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the corresponding 
law in the host country ; 

( ii ) the transferred balance in a recognised provident fund, to the extent provided 
in sub -rule (4 ) of rule 11 of Part A of the Fourth Schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1961 
and the corresponding law in the host country ; 


Income 
received in 
previous year. 


43 of 1961. 


43 of 1961. 


178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(iii ) the official figure cited in the filing of income tax returns made by the assessee , 
as obtained from the tax collection agency of the host country, as per the provision of 
section 24 . 


Registration . 


7 . Every assessee, upon obtaining legal immigrant status, as mentioned under section 
4 shall , — 


Deductions for 
contributions 
to research 
and charity . 


(a ) register with the Ministry of External Affairs , as per provisions ofSection 4 ; 

(b ) upon receiving income tax returns from the host country shall report to the 
Ministry of External Affairs a notarized copy of the income tax returns, along with the 
payment of cess, if applicable in such manner as may be prescribed . 

8 . (1) In computing the total liability of an assessee through his notarized copy of his 
income tax returns as per provisions of section 7 , there shall be deducted , in accordance with 
and subject to the provisions of this section , the sums specified in sub - section (2 ). 
(2 ) The sums referred to in sub -section ( 1) shallbe the following, namely : 

(a ) any sum paid by the assessee in the previous year to a research association 
within the territory of India ,which has as its object the undertaking of research in social 
sciences or stastical research or scientific research or to a University, college or other 
institution within the territory of India to be used for scientific research : 
Provided that such association , University, college or institution is for the time being 
approved for the purposes of clause ( ii) of sub -section ( 1) of section 35 of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961; 

43 of 1961. 
(b ) any sum paid by the assessee in the previous year after furnishing the 
certificate referred to in sub -section (2 ) or sub -section (2A ) of section 35CCA 
of Income Tax Act, 1961 from such association or institution within the territory of 43 of 1961. 
India 

(i) which has as its object the undertaking of any programme of rural 
development,to be used for carrying out any programme of rural development in 
India ; or 

( ii ) which has as its object the training of persons for implementing pro 
grammes of rural development; 

(c) any sum paid by the assessee in any previous year ending on or before the 
31st day of March , 2002 to an association or institution , which has as its object the 
undertaking of any programme of conservation of natural resources or of afforestation , 
to be used for carrying out any programme of conservation of natural resources or of 
afforestation approved first time for the purposes of section 35CCB of the Income Tax 

43 of 1961. 
Act, 1961; 

(d ) any sum paid by the assessee in any previous year ending on or before the 
31st day of March , 2002 to such fund for afforestation as is notified by the 
Central Government under clause (b ) of sub - section (1) of section 35CCB of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 ; 

43 of 1961. 


43 of 1961. 


( e ) any sum paid by the assessee in the previous year to a rural development 
fund set up and notified by the Central Government for the purposes of clause (c ) of 
sub -section ( 1) of section 35CCA of the Income Tax Act, 1961; 

(f) any sum paid by the assessee in the previous year to the National Urban 
Poverty Eradication Fund set up and notified by the Central Government 
for the purposes of clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 35CCA of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961; 


43 of 1961. 


(g ) any sums paid by the assessee in the previous year as donations to 

(i) the National Defence Fund set up by the Central Government; or 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


179 


(ii ) the Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Fund referred to in the Deed of 
Declaration of Trust adopted by the National Committee at its meeting held on 
the 17th day of August, 1964 ; or 

( iii) the PrimeMinister s Drought Relief Fund ; or 
(iv ) the Prime Minister s National Relief Fund ; or 


(v ) the National Children s Fund ; or 

(vi) any Zila Saksharta Samiti constituted in any district under the 
chairperson of the Collector of that district for the purposes of improvement of 
primary education in villages and towns in such district and for literacy and 
post-literacy activities; or 

(vii ) the National Blood Transfusion Council or to any State Blood 
Transfusion Council which has its sole object the control, supervision , regulation 
or encouragement in India of the services related to operation and requirements 
of blood banks ; or 

(viii ) any fund set up by a State Government to provide medical relief to 
the poor; or 

(ix ) the Army Central Welfare Fund or the Indian Naval Benevolent Fund 
or the Air Force Central Welfare Fund established by the armed forces of the 
Union for the welfare of the past and present members of such forces or their 
dependants ; or 

(x ) the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister s Cyclone Relief Fund , 1996 ; or 


( xi) the National Illness Assistance Fund ; or 

( xii ) the Chief Minister s Relief Fund or the LieutenantGovernor s Relief 
Fund in respect of any State or Union territory, as the case may be; 


( xiii) the National Sports Fund to be set up by the Central Government; or 
(xiv) the National Cultural Fund set up by the Central Government; or 

( xv ) the Fund for Technology Development and Application set up by the 
Central Government;or 

( xvi) the National Trust for Welfare of Persons with Autism , Cerebral Palsy, 
Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities constituted under sub - section ( 1) 
of section 3 of the National Trust for Welfare of Persons with Autism , Cerebral 
Palsy , Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999; or 

(xvii) the Eastern Assam Social HabitatWelfare And Relief set up by the 
Central Government; or 

(xviii) the Swachh Bharat Kosh , set up by the CentralGovernment, other 
than the sum spent by the assessee in pursuance of Corporate Social 
Responsibility under sub -section (5) of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 ; 
or 


44 of 1999 . 


18 of 2013 . 


18 of 2013 . 


(xix ) the Clean Ganga Fund , set up by the Central Government, where 
such assessee is a resident and such sum is other than the sum spent by the 
assessee in pursuance of Corporate Social Responsibility under sub -section (5 ) 
of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013; or 

(xx) the National Fund for Control of Drug Abuse constituted under section 
7A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 ; or 

( xxi) any other fund or any institution to which this section applies ; or 


61 of 1985 . 


180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


( xxii ) the Government or any local authority , to be utilized for any charitable 
purpose ; or 

(xxiii ) an authority constituted in India by or under any law enacted either 
for the purpose of dealing with and satisfying the need for housing , 
accommodation or for the purpose of planning, development or improvement of 
cities, towns and villages, or for both ; or 

(xxiv) the Government or to any such local authority , institution or 
association as may be approved in this behalf by the Central Government, to be 

utilized for the purpose of promoting family planning. 
(3) No deduction shall be allowed under this section in respect of any sum exceeding 
the total cess liability of the assessee . 

(4 ) Where a deduction under this section is claimed and allowed for any assessment 
year in respect of any payments of the nature specified in sub - section (2 ) , deduction shall 
not be allowed in respect of such payments under any other provision of this Act for the 

same or any other assessment year. 
Calculation of 9 . (1 ) If the CentralGovernment provides that the cess specified under section 3 shall 
cess . 

be charged for any assessment year at any rate or rates, cess at that rate or those rates shall 
be charged for that year in accordance with , and subject to the provisions ( including provisions 
for the levy of additional cess ) of this Act in respect of the total income tax payments of the 
previous year of every assessee , whereas upon the commencement of this Act , the cess 
rates as specified under the Schedule to this Act shall apply: 

Provided that where by virtue of any provision of this Act, cess is to be charged in 
respect of the income tax payments for a period other than the previous year, cess shall be 
charged accordingly. 

(2) In respect of income chargeable under sub -section (1 ), income-tax shall be deducted 
at the source or paid in advance , where it is so deductible or payable under any provision of 
section 24 . 

(3) The Tax authorities specified under section 11 shall receive all necessary information 
from the Ministry of External Affairs under the provisions of section 7 about the assessee for 
the execution of the provisions of this Act. 

(4 ) Tax authorities specified under section 11 shall presentan annual report, including 
the recommendations for cess rates, to the CentralGovernment, which shall include: - 

(a ) comparative inflation between India and major host countries , as provided 
under section 18 ; 

(b ) foreign exchange rates, and the purchasing power parity between India and 
major host countries, as provided under section 18 ; 

(c) revision of tax brackets for the imposition of cess, according to the change in 
income distribution of assesees; and 

(5) The CentralGovernment shall ,by notification , amend the cess rates at any time. 
Exemption for 10 . Every assessee obtaining tax - relief from host countries for taxes paid in India shall 
tax relief be exempted from the provisions of section 3 , if the tax authorities, as specified under 

aries. section 11 , receives and verifies information as obtained under section 7 . 
Tax relief 

11 . ( 1) Every assessee returning to reside in India , within a period of ten years from the 
upon re- entry. date of migration , on a permanent basis, shall receive the benefits of twenty per cent. rebate 

on the total cess paid by the assessee , if he files tax returns under the provisions of Income 
Tax Act, 1961, 

(a ) an employee of the CentralGovernment, a public or private company registered 
under the Indian Companies Act , 2013, organization , local or State Government, or non 


bene ficiaries . 


43 of 1961. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


181 


43 of 1961. 


profit entity, and any similar entity or organization within the territory of India ; or 

(b ) self-employed person within the territory of India ; 

(c) business owner or investor within the territory of India , as defined by the 
Income Tax Act, 1961. 

(2 ) The Central Government shall, by notification , change the rebate on the total cess 
under the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) in such manner as may be prescribed . 

CHAPTER III 


43 of 1961. 


Tax MANAGEMENT 
12 . ( 1) The income- Tax authorities specified in section 116 of the Income Tax Act shall Tax 
be the tax authorities for the purposes of this Act. 

Authorities. 
(2) Every Income Tax authority shall in cooperation with the corresponding host country 
tax authority , exercise the powers and perform the functions of a tax authority under this Act 
in respect of any person within his jurisdiction , and subject to the provisions of sub -section (6 ). 

(3 ) Subject to the provisions of sub -sections (4 ) and (6 ), the jurisdiction of a tax 
authority under this Act, in addition to the jurisdiction granted under the Income-tax Act, 
1961 by virtue of orders or directions issued under section 120 of that Act (including orders 
or directions assigning the concurrent jurisdiction ), will also include the jurisdiction over 
non -resident Indian citizens , subject to provisions of section 19 . 

(4 ) The tax authority having jurisdiction in relation to an assessee who has no income 
assessable to income-tax under the Income Tax Act shall be the tax authority having jurisdiction 
in respect of the area in which the assessee resides or carries on its business or has its 
principal place of business. 

(5) Section 118 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and any notification issued thereunder 
shall apply in relation to the control of tax authorities as they apply in relation to the control 
of the corresponding income-tax authorities, except to the extent to which said authorities 
may , by notification in the OfficialGazette , otherwise direct in respect of any tax authority. 

(6 ) The Tax authorities shall coordinate with the respective host country tax authorities 
either unilaterally or through the Ministry of External Affairs in the execution of the provisions 
of this Act. 

(7 ) The CentralGovernment, shall ,by notification ,make rules to update the jurisdiction 
of tax authorities, or establish a body exclusively for the purposes of executing the provisions 
of this Act. 

13 . ( 1) The tax authority may amend any order passed by it under this Act so as to Rectification 
rectify any mistake apparent from the record . 

of mistake. 
( 2 ) No amendment under this section shall bemade after a period of four years from the 
end of the assessment year in which the order sought to be amended was passed . 

( 3) The tax authority shall not make any amendment, which has the effect of enhancing 
the cess liability owed under the provisions of section 3 or reducing a refund or otherwise 
increasing, the liability of the assessee under the provisions of Section 3 of this Act, unless 
the authority concerned has given to the assessee adequate opportunity for appeal. 
(4 ) The tax authority concerned may make an amendment under this section 

(a ) on its own motion ; or 

(b ) on the application made to it by the assessee or, as the case may be, by the 
Assessing Officer . 

( 5 ) Any application received by the tax authority for amendment of an order shall be 
decided within a period of six months from the end of the month in which such application is 
received by it . 


182 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(6 ) In case where the order has been made in an appeal or revision , the power of the tax 
authority to amend the order shall be restricted to matters other than those decided in appeal 
or revision . 


Notice of 
demand. 


14 . Any sum payable in consequence of any order made under this Act shall be 
demanded by a tax authority by serving upon the assessee a notice of demand in such form 
and manner as provided under section 19 and section 42 . 


Recovery of 
taxes . 


15 . The tax authorities shall execute the provisions of this Act in relation to the recovery 
of cess liability from assessees as per the Central Acts passed in accordance the provisions 
of section 18. 


Advance 
payment of 
taxes . 


16 . The tax authorities shall, in coordination with the Ministry of External Affairs, 
provide for advance payment of cess liability for assessees subject to the provisions of 
sections 3 , 7 , and 8 , through a collection mechanism determined by the tax authorities under 
section 17 . 


Differencies in 
tax brackets. 


17 . The tax authorities shall ,by notification make rules in addition to the provisions of 
section 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 and 21 of this Act. 


Revision of 
tax brackets 
and tax rates . 


18 . ( 1 ) The tax authorities, as identified under the provisions of section 12 shall make 
recommendations to the Central Government on the revision of cess rates and tax brackets 
for the purpose of executing the provisions sub -sections ( 3) and (4 ) of section 9 . 


(2 ) The Central Government shall, by notification , make rules according to the 
recommendations sent by the tax authorities , for the purpose of executing the provisions of 
this Act . 


CHAPTER IV 


COOPERATION WITH DESTINATION COUNTRIES 


Agreements 
with host 
countries . 


19 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernmentmay enter into an agreement with the Government of 
any other country for 


( a ) recovery of tax under this Act and under the corresponding law in force in 
that country : 


(b ) setting up mechanism for the cooperation between the tax authority under 
the provisions of section 12 and the corresponding tax collection authority in the host 
country : 


(c) granting of relief in respect of — 

(i) income on which tax has been paid both under this Act and under the 
corresponding law in force in that country : or 


(ii) cess chargeable under this Act: 


(d ) avoidance of double taxation of same income under this Act and under the 
corresponding law in force in that country ; 

(e) exchange of information for the execution of the provisions of this Act; 

(f) exchange of information for the prevention of evasion or avoidance of tax on 
foreign income chargeable under this Act or under the corresponding law in force in 
that country, or investigation of cases of such evasion or avoidance : 

(8 ) carrying out any other purpose of this Act not expressly covered under 
clauses (a ) to (d ) or the corresponding law in force in that country . 


( 2 ) The CentralGovernmentmay enter into an agreement with the Government of any 
specified territory outside India for the purposes specified under sub - section ( 1). 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


183 


(3 ) The Central Government may , by notification , make such provisions as may be 
necessary for implementing the agreements referred to in sub -sections (1) and ( 2). 


( 4) Any specified association in India may enter into an agreement with any specified 
association in the specified territory outside India for the purposes of sub - section ( 1) and 
the Central Governmentmay by notification make such provisions as may be necessary for 
adopting and implementing such agreement. 


20 . Any term used but not defined in this Act or in the agreement referred to in sub - Disambiguation 
sections ( 1 ), ( 2 ) or sub -section ( 4 ) of section 24 shall, unless the context otherwise requires , of authority. 
and is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or the agreement, have the meaning 
assigned to it in the notification issued by the Central Government and such meaning shall 
be deemed to have effect from the date on which the said agreement came into force. 


21. None of the provisions of this Act, or any other rulesmade thereunder shall deny Freedom of 
any citizen of India , the freedom to emigrate from the country , subject to reasonable emigration . 
restrictions, including the provisions of section 37 and the provisions under the Indian Penal 
Code, 1860. 


45 of 1860 . 


22 . (1) Where on transfer of assets by virtue or in consequence whereof, either alone Tax liability 
or in conjunction with associated operations, any income is payable to an assessee , the for transfer 

from resident 
following provisions shall apply 


to an assessee . 


( a ) where any resident has , by means of any such transfer, either alone or in 
conjunction with associated operations, acquire any rights by virtue of which he has, 
within the meaning of this section , power to enjoy , whether forthwith or in the future , 
any income of an assessee which , if it were income of the first -mentioned person , may 
be chargeable to income-tax , that income shall , whether it may ormay not have been 
chargeable to income- tax apart from the provisions of Section 93 of the Income Tax 
Act, be deemed to be income of the first-mentioned person for all the purposes of this 
Act; 


(b ) where , whether before or after any such transfer, any such resident receives 
or is entitled to receive any capital sum the payment whereof is in any way connected 
with the transfer or any associated operations, then any income which , by virtue or in 
consequence of the transfer, either alone or in conjunction with associated operations, 
has become the income of an assessee shall, whether it may or may not have been 
chargeable to income tax apart from the provisions of Section 93 of the Income Tax 
Act, be deemed to be the income of the first-mentioned person for all the purposes of 
this Act. 


43 of 1961. 


(2 ) Where any person has been charged to cess on any income deemed to be his under 
the provisions of this section and that income is subsequently received by him , whether as 
income or in any other form , it shall not again be deemed to form part of his income for the 
purposes of this Act. 


( 3) The provisions of this section shall not apply if the resident in sub -section (1 ) 
shows to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer that , 


( a ) neither the transfer nor any associated operation had for its purpose or for 
one of its purposes the avoidance of liability to taxation ; or 


(b ) the transfer and all associated operations were bona fide commercial 
transactions and were not designed for the purpose of avoiding liability to taxation . 


184 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


CHAPTER V 


Collection and 
distribution 
authorities . 


INDIAN NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP AND RESEARCH FUND 
23 . (1) With effect from such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by the notification 
in the OfficialGazette, specify in this behalf, there shall be established a Board to be called as 
the Indian National Scholarship and Research Board . 
(2) The Board shall consist of,— 

(a ) Union Minister of Human Resource Development, Chairperson , 
ex -officio ; 

(b ) the Secretary, Union Ministry of Human Resource Development;member, 
ex - officio ; 


(c ) the Chairperson, University Grants Commission ,member, ex -officio ; 

(d ) three persons one to represent the Union Ministry concerned with technical 
education , another to represent the Union Ministry of Finance and the third to represent 
any other Union Ministry to be nominated by the CentralGovernment in such manner 
as may be prescribed , Members ; 

(e ) three Members of Parliament, of whom two shall be elected by the House of 
the People from among itsmembers and one by the Council ofStates from itsmembers, 
members; 


(f) two members to be nominated by the State Governments , on a rotational 
basis ,member; 


(g ) three other members having expertise in the field to be nominated by the 
Ministry of Human Resource Developmenton a yearly basis, member: 


Provided that at least four members of the Board shall be women : 


Provided further that one of the person nominated under clause (d ) shall act as the 
member - Secretary of the Board . 


(3 ) The Board shall meet at least once a month to discuss the progress of the 
implementation of the provisions of this Chapter, and the minutes of the meeting shall be 
made available to the public on the website of Ministry of Human Resource Development 
within one week of the meeting . 


Constitution 
of funds . 


(4 ) The Board shall, with its power by order,make rules in addition to the provisions of 
sections 24 , 25 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 and 34 of this Act. 

24 . (1) The CentralGovernment shall,by notification in the OfficialGazette , constitute 
the following funds , with an initial corpus of not less than fifty per cent. of the tax revenue 
generated from the cess imposed under section 3 and any additional funds where the Central 
Government may allocate from time to time: 

(a )National Scholarship Fund of India ; 
(b ) International Scholarship Fund of India ; 


(c ) National Research Grant Fund of India ; 


(2 ) The corpus Fund in the National Scholarship Fund of India constituted under sub 
section ( 1 ) shall be allocated by the Board towards need -based merit scholarships, as per the 
provisions of section 25 and section 26 in Universities within the territory of India as per the 
provisions of section 27 to eligible Indian citizens, if, — 


( a ) the student enrolls in a field of study prescribed under section 30 in one of 
the Universities listed under section 27 of this Act; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


185 


(b ) the student signs an agreement with the Board , to be administered by the 
Ministry of Human Resource Development, to complete a service obligation , as provided 
under section 32 within the territory of India , immediately upon completion of the field 
of study mentioned under clause (a ). 

(3 ) The corpus fund in the International Scholarship Fund of India constituted under 
sub -section ( 1) shall be allocated by the Board towards international education scholarships, 
as per the provisions of section 25 and 26 in Universities outside the territory of India as per 
the provisions of section 28 to eligible Indian citizens, if, — 

(a ) the student enrolls in a field of study prescribed under section 30 in one of 
the scholarship programs in the universities listed under section 28 of this Act; 

(b ) the student signs an agreement with the Indian National Scholarship and 
Research Board , to be administered by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, 
to complete a service obligation , as provided under section 32 within the territory 
of India , immediately upon completion of the field of study mentioned in 
clause (a ). 

(4 ) The corpus fund in the National Research GrantFund of India shallbe allocated by 
the Board in a manner prescribed under section 33 . 

25 . (1) The Board shall determine the recipients of the need -based scholarship , Need based 
established under the sub - section (2 ) of section 24 in a manner that considers , scholarship 
inter -alia , the following criteria , only with adequate material evidence , as determined by a 

bed by distribution . 
rules created by the Board after the commencement of this Act: 

(a ) financial ability (or inability ) to pay the tuition , room and board fees of the 
university ; 

(b ) the academic rank obtained in the corresponding entrance exam or higher 
secondary school examination results ; 

(C) the field of study undertaken under section 30 . 
(2) The Board shall, by notification , add any other criteria under sub - section (1) which 
it claims fit . 

( 3 ) The financial ability ( or inability ) mentioned in clause (a ) of sub- section ( 1) shall be 
determined by the Board considering , among others, the annual income of the family,movable 
assets and number of dependents in the family in relation to the total cost of attendance of 
the university or institute mentioned under section 27 and 29 . 

26 . The Board shall, within its powers, in coordination with the administration of the Reservation . 
universities listed under section 27, provide for reservations of seats in universities , in fields 
of study prescribed under section 30 , separately for the beneficiaries of the National 
Scholarship Fund of India . 

27 . The provisions of sub -section (2 ) of Section 23 shall apply to the following Eligible 
universities in India , subject to change by the Central Government, by order , at any time universities in 
after the commencement of this Act, notwithstanding the provisions in Institutions of 
Technology Act, 1961, The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission ) 
Act, 2006 , The University Grants Commission Act, 1956 . National Institutes of Technology 
Act, 2007 , and any such acts that may arise from the changes to this Section made by the 
Board : 


India . 


59 of 1961. 
5 of 2007 . 
3 of 1956 . 
29 of 2007. 


(1 ) Indian Institute of Technology, Madras ; 
(2) Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi; 
(3) Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur; 
(4 ) Indian Institute of Technology , Bombay ; 


186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Scholarship 
abroad . 


(5) Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur ; 
(6 ) Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee ; 
(7 ) Birla Institute of Technology and Science ; 
(8 ) Indian Institute of Technology ,Guwahati ; 
(9) National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli; 
( 10 ) National Institute of Technology, Warangal; 
( 11) Indian Institute of Science , Bangalore ; 
( 12) Jawaharlal Nehru University ,New Delhi; 
(13 ) University of Delhi; 
( 14 ) Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore; 
( 15 ) Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad ; 
( 16 ) Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta ; 
( 17) National Law School of India University, Bangalore ; 
( 18 ) Nalsar University ofLaw , Hyderabad ; 
( 19 ) National Law University , Jodhpur; 
(20) West BengalNationalUniversity of Juridial Sciences, Kolkata . 

28 . The Board shall , within its power, in accordance with the universities listed under 
section 29 , set up undergraduate and postgraduate private scholarship funds to a specified 
number students studying abroad according to the rules prescribed by the Board , in the 
respective universities , in fields of study specified under section 30 according to the 
administration of the university and not in contradiction of this Act or any other Act , to 
Indian citizens in accordance with the provisions of section 24 . 

29 . The provisions of section 28 of Chapter V shall apply to the following universities 
outside India, subject to the change made by the CentralGovernment,by order, at any time 
after the commencement of this Act, notwithstanding any such acts that may arise from the 
changes to this Section made by the Central Government: 

(1) Harvard University , United States of America ; 
(2) Yale University, United States of America ; 
(3) Columbia University , United States of America; 
(4 ) Stanford University , United States of America ; 
(5 ) Princeton University , United States of America ; 
(6 ) ETH Zurich Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich , Switzerland ; 
(7) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, United States of America ; 
(8 ) University of Oxford ,United Kingdom ; 
(9) University of Cambridge, United Kingdom ; 
( 10 ) London School of Economics , United Kingdom ; 
( 11) University of Chicago , United States of America ; 
(12 ) California Institute of Technology , United States of America ; 
(13) University of California , Berkeley, United States of America; 
( 14 ) University of Pennsylvania , United States of America ; 


Eligible 
universities 
abroad . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


187 


(15 ) University of California , Los Angeles, United States of America ; 
( 16 ) University College London ,United Kingdom ; 
( 17 ) Johns Hopkins University , United States of America ; 
(18 ) Duke University, United States of America ; 
(19) Cornell University , United States of America; 
( 20 ) Northwestern University,United States of America ; 
( 21 ) University of Michigan , United States of America; 
(22 ) University of Toronto , Canada ; 
( 23) Carnegie Mellon University,United States of America; 


(24 ) National University of Singapore, Singapore ; 


( 25 ) University of Edinburgh , United Kingdom ; 
( 26 ) Peking University , People s Republic of China ; 
(27 ) LMU Munich ,Germany ; 
(28 ) New York University, United States of America ; 
( 29) Georgia Institute of Technology , United States; 
(30 ) University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong . 

30. The Board shall determine the eligible fields of study, subject to a of yearly review Eligible fields 
by the Board under the provision of section 31, for the executions of provisions of this of study. 
Chapter, which shall include , inter -alia , undergraduate , post- graduate and research degrees 
in these broad disciplines : 

(1) Science, Technology, Mathematics and Engineering (STEM ); 


(2 ) Law , Government, Public Policy and Politics; 


( 3) Research in Social Sciences; 

(4) Medical Sciences ,Health Administration , and Biotechnology. 

31 . The Board shall have the power to add or remove fields of study including the Scope of 
broad disciplines listed under section 30 . 

expansion of 
eligible fields 
of study . 


32 . The recipients of the scholarship fund as provided under sub - sections ( 2 ) and (3 ) Service 
of section 23 , shall meet the following service requirement obligation requirement for a obligation 

requirement. 
minimum of five years, subject to revision by the Board : 

(a ) the recipient must reside within the territory of India ; 

(b ) the recipient shall, if applicable, be employed in a multinational corporation , 
only if the income accrued from the employment is within the territory of India ; 

(c) the recipient shall, if applicable , be employed in the CentralGovernment of 
India in Public sector undertakings, or in any company registered under the Companies 
Act, 2013 ; 


(d ) The recipient shall , if applicable , be self -employed , in a partnership , sole 
proprietor, partial or full owner of a company within the territory of India ; 

(e ) any economic or non - economic activity within the territory of India as deemed 
eligible by the Board : 


188 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Research fund . 


Provided that the following exceptions shall apply to the service obligation requirement, 
if after the , — 

(a ) the recipient has obtained a short- term research and development fellowship , 
or any work - related project, on - site visit , assignment or a similar position , in a reputed 
international university , organization , or entity , for a period of not less than two years ; 

(b ) the recipient has been admitted into a post- graduate program or research 
degree program in a reputed international university, the duration of said program shall 
not be longer than six years. 

33. The Board shall, within its powers , constitute a Fund to be known as Research 
Grant Fund of India to allocate the funds in the research projects taking place in universities , 
public and private institutions within the territory of India through a public competitive 
selection process, subject to revision by the Board , as per the selection criteria listed under 
section 34 . 

34 . The Board shall consider ,among other factors as determined by the Board , the following 
criteria in the selection of research projects under the provision of sections 24 and 33 : 

(a) importance to scientific advancement; 
(b ) importance to poverty alleviation ; 


Selection 
criteria . 


Compliance 
and penalties. 


( c) importance to national defence . 
35 . The Board shallmake rules by order, in order to provide for the expansion of the 
Fund , to revise and update the eligible institutions, individuals and recipients, to provide for 
strict compliance policies with penalties and other amendments to this Sections that the 
Board shall deem necessary, only through a unanimous decision by the members of the 
Board . 


CHAPTER VI 


PROVISIONS REGARDING CAPITAL CREATION 


Distribution of 
funds to the 
Fund of Funds 
for Startups. 


36 . (1 ) The Fund for startups , as established by the Start Up India Action Plan by the 
Central Government, shall receive , a predetermined proportion by the Central Government, 
but not less than forty per cent. of the tax revenue generated from the cess imposed under 
section 3 and any additional funds which the CentralGovernmentmay allocate , from time to 
time. 


( 2 ) The CentralGovernment shall ,by notification ,make rules in addition to sub -section 
( 1) to specifically distribute the funds to startups functioning in the fields prescribed in 
section 30 . 

CHAPTER VII 


Notification in 
passport. 


PENALTIES AND PROSECUTIONS 
37 . If an assessee has failed to comply with the provision of sections Notification in 
12 , 14 , 15 , 19 , 24 , and 33 , after reasonable effort has been made to inform passport, the 
assessee of his failure to comply through the Central Government of India or the respective 
Government of the host country and a grace period of six months has lapsed , a notification 
on his passport shall be issued by the Ministry of External Affairs, which shall prevent him 
from extending his visa status in any foreign country, as per provisions under section 19 , and 
preventhim from leaving the territory of India , if applicable : 
Provided that the notification may if removed within a period of twenty - four hours if 

(1 ) The Central Board of Direct Taxes , after review of the Online- Appeal Form , as 
set up under section 45, dismisses the notification ; or 

(2 ) payment of tax plus penalty under section 38 is made ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


189 


(3 ) medical emergency as specified under section 39 ; 


(4 ) the provisions of the Act, as mentioned under this section , are fulfilled , and 
an application for removal has been processed by the Indian NationalScholarship and 
Research Board . 


38 . The Assessing Officer may, direct that, in a case where tax has been computed Additional 
under sections 12 and 19 , in respect of foreign income and tax payments , and the assessee 
has failed to pay his obligation , if any , as identified by the authorities under section 12 , he 
shall pay by way of penalty, in addition to tax 

(1) twenty - five per cent, tax penalty on the failed tax payment if paid within six 
months of non - payment of tax payment; 

( 2) seventy five per cent, tax penalty, on the failed tax payment if paid within one 
year of non -payment of tax payment; 

( 3 ) three times the failed tax payment, or a surcharge of $ 10 , 000 , whichever is 
higher, upon reentry into the country. 

39 . No penalties provided under sections 37 , 38 , and 41 of this Act shall apply Exceptions for 
of,— 

special 

circumstances. 
( a ) a medical emergency for the assessee or an immediate family member, as 
ascertained by medical professionals, or if the assessee produces a verifiable medical 
certificate proving requirement of travel either to and from the country ,then a temporary 
removal of the notification under section 37 shall apply for thirty calendar days and 
upon the cessation of said period thirty days the notification will automatically be 
reapplied ; or 


43 of 1961 


(b ) a medical emergency requires immediate significant medical expenses, and 
the assessee produces (i) medical certificate proving requirement of travel ( ii )medical 
certificate showing significant expenses the a temporary removal of the notification , 
allowing international travel, shall apply for thirty calendar days and upon the cessation 
of said period of thirty days the notification will automatically be reapplied . 

40 . Notwithstanding clause (6 ) of section 6 of the Income-tax Act, an assessee is Disclosure of 
required to furnish a return of his income for any previous year, notwithstanding sub - section income and 
( 1) of section 139 of the Income- tax Act or by the provisions to that sub -section , and who at 
any time during such previous year. 

(i) held any asset (including financial interest in any entity ) located outside 
India as a beneficial owner or otherwise ; or 

( ii ) was a beneficiary of any asset ( including financial interest in any entity ) 
located outside India ; or 


taxes . 


43 of 1961 


( iii ) had any income from a source located outside India, and fans to furnish 
such return before the end of the relevant assessment year, the Assessing Officer may 
direct that such person shall pay , by way of penalty , a sum of ten per cent. of the value 
of such asset : 

Provided that this section shall not apply in respect of an asset, being one or more 
bank accounts having an aggregate balance which does not exceed a value equivalent to 
five hundred thousand rupees at any time during the previous year. 

41. The provisions of sections 44, 45 , 46 , 47, 52, 53, 54 , and 55 the Back Money 
( Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act , 2015 . 


Application of 
Act No. 22 of 
2015 . 


190 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


CHAPTER VIII 


GENERAL PROVISIONS 


Service of 
notice 
generally . 


42 . (1 ) The service of any notice , summons, requisition , order or any 
other communication under this Act (herein referred to in this section as generally 
communication ") may be made by delivering or transmitting a copy thereof, to the person 
named therein , — 


(a ) by post or by such courier service as may be approved by the assigned tax 
authorities, as mentioned under section 12 ; 


(b ) in such manner as provided under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the 5 of 1908 
purposes of service of summons; 


2 of 2000 


(c) in the form of any electronic record as provided in Chapter IV of the Information 
Technology Act, 2000 ; or 

(d ) by any other means of transmission of documents, including fax message or 
electronic mailmessage, as may be prescribed . 

(2) The tax authorities mentioned in section 12 of this Actmay make rules providing for 
the addresses including the address for electronic mail or electronic mail message to which 
the communication referred to in sub -section (1) may be delivered or transmitted to the 
person named therein . 


1 of 2000 


Authentication 
of tax 
authority . 


( 3) In this section , the expressions " electronic mail" and " electronic mail message ", 
shall have the same meanings as assigned to them in the Explanation to section 66A of the 
Information Technology Act, 2000 . 

43. (1 ) A notice or any other document required to be issued , served or given for the 
purposes of this Act by any tax authority shall be authenticated by that authority . 

(2) Every notice or other document to be issued , served or given for the purposes of 
this Act by any tax authority shall be deemed to be authenticated , if the name and office of a 
designated tax authority is printed , stamped or otherwise written thereon . 

(3 ) In this section , a designated tax authority shall mean any tax authority authorized 
by the Central Board of Direct Taxes to issue, serve or give such notice or other document 
after authentication in themanner as provided in sub - section ( 2 ). 


Rounding off 


44. (1 ) The amount of cess liability computed in accordance with Section 3 of this Act 
shall be rounded off to the nearest multiple of one hundred rupees. 


of 


me , 


value of asset 
and tax . 


Return of 
income not to 

to 
be deemed 
invalid . 


( 2) Any amount payable or receivable by the assessee under this Act shall be rounded 
off to the nearestmultiple of ten rupees. 

(3) The method of rounding off under sub - section (1) or under sub - section (2), shallbe 
such as may be prescribed . 

45 . No return of income, assessment, notice, summons or other proceeding, furnished 
ormade or issued or taken or purported to have been furnished or made or issued or taken in 
pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act shall be invalid or shall be deemed to be 
invalid merely by reason of any mistake, defect or omission in such return of income, 
assessment, notice , summons or other proceeding if such return of income, assessment, 
notice, summons or other proceeding is in substance and effect in conformity with or according 
to the intent and purpose of this Act. 

46 . No court inferior to that of a presidency magistrate or a magistrate of the first class 
shall try any offence under this Act. 


Cognizance of 
offence . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


191 


47 .Where, under any provision of this Act, the approval of the Central Government or Condone 

delays in 
the tax authority as defined under Section 11 of this Act, is required to be obtained before a 

4 approval. 
specified date, it shall be open to the Central Governmentor, as the case may be, the authority 
to condone, for sufficient cause , any delay in obtaining such approval . 

48 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Income Tax Act , 1961, all information Income Tax 
contained in any statement or return made or furnished under the provisions of that Act papers to be 

available for 
or obtained or collected for the purposes of said Act may be used for the purposes of this 

the purpose of 
Act. 

this Act. 


43 of 1961 


43 of 1961 


49 . The CentralGovernment shall, upon the commencement of this Act, pass necessary Amendment 
amendments to sections 5 and 6 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, if any such amendments are 

ore of Income Tax 

Act, 1961. 
required , for the purpose of executing the provisions of this Act. 


50 . (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may. by order, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, remove the remove 

difficulties. 
difficulty : 


Provided thatno such order shall be made after the expiry of a period oftwo years from 
the date on which the provisions of this Act come into force . 


( 2) Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of Parliament. 

51. (1) The Central Board of Direct Taxes , in compliance with Section 11 , Section 12 Power to 
and Section 18 of this Act may, subject to the approval of the Central Government, make rules . 
by notification in the Official Gazette , make rules for carrying out the provisions of this 
Act. 


(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power , such 
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters : — 

( a ) the manner of determination of the value of cess liability referred to in 
section 3 ; 


(b ) the tax authority to be prescribed for any of the purposes of this Act; 


(c ) the form and manner of service of a notice of demand under section 51 ad 54 ; 


(d ) the form in which any appeal, revision or cross- objection may be filed under 
this Act, the manner in which they may be verified and the fee payable in respect 
thereof; 


(e ) the form in which the Assessing Officer may draw up the statement of tax 
arrears under all Sections under Chapter III of this Act; 


(f) the manner in which the sum is to be paid to the credit of CentralGovernment 
under the provisions of this Act; 

(g ) the formation , rules and regulations for an Online Appeal Form . 
( 3) The power to make rules conferred by this section shall include the power to give 
retrospective effect to the rules or any of them from a date not earlier than the date of 
commencement of this Act and no retrospective effect shall be given to any rule so as to 
prejudicially affect the interest of assessees. 


( 4 ) The Central Government shall cause every rule made under this Act to be laid as 
soon as may be after it is made before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a 
total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive 
sessions and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 


192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 
both Houses agree that the rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only 
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


193 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The issue of growing emigration of high - skilled labourers from India to highly developed 
countries has increased manifold in recent times, most of the times, such non -residentfails to 
file return of income tax . The bill also directs the Central Government to use the revenue 
generated from the said cess in the creation of a scholarship and research fund and an 
addition of funds to the Fund for Funds for Startups (FFS ) set up by the CentralGovernment. 


High -skilled labourers in Science , Technology , Engineering andMathematics (STEM ) 
industries possess a higher degree of mobility as compared to every other worker , and 
therefore are able to easily relocate to countries that offer them the highest salaries. While as 
Indian citizens they are entitled to the freedom of movement, and as guaranteed by the UN 
declaration of human rights , they have the right to emigrate from their own country , high 
skilled emigrants create a pressing public policy crisis in India . 

First , by moving out of the country, the high -skilled emigrants deprive India of 
innovation , research and industrial development that gets created in the developed destination 
countries . Second, they create a massive loss in tax revenue that is essential to provide to 
measures of poverty alleviation , and for the development of the country. Therefore, in order 
to justifiably impose the responsibility that the emigrants bear to contribute to the growth of 
the country , but at the same time respect their right to emigrate , a globally -levied domestic 
development cess is required , the need , is, therfore to introduce a brain drain cess on such 
non -resident Indian citizen . 

The Brain drain cess is justified on following: 

(i) Non -Resident Indians (NRIs) have the rights extended to every citizen of India. 
including , the right to vote in local, State and national elections. However, under the Income 
Tax Act, these residents do not pay taxes to the Indian Government if they live outside India 
for more than 180 days per year . This has led to a situation of " representation without 
taxation " , meaning they enjoy the benefits of an Indian citizenship without the obligations 
that comewith it . 

(ii) the Indian Government subsidizes science and technology education through 
institutions like the Indian Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Management, and 
other public universities in order to cultivate domestic technological innovation and research . 
However, as argued above, the engineers and scientists that graduate from these universities 
access their right to emigrate to better opportunities and move out of the country, rendering 
the public investment without fruit. This could address the particular problem by instituting 
a service obligation requirement for recipients of scholarships and research funds , which 
requires them to reside within the territory of India for a specified period of time. This is done 
only to recipients of scholarships, similar to a policy in Singapore , because a large -scale 
imposition of such a service obligation would be unconstitutional. 

(iii ) High -skilled emigration creates a large distributional issue in taxation within the 
country. The NRI population ,who typically fall in the top 1 % of the incomedistribution in 
the country , fail to pay their fair share of taxes, leaving more of the tax burden on the poorer 
parts of the country. By including a cess that is applied to non -resident Indians, poorer 
Indians can be provided with a tax relief, therebymaking our tax policy more just . 

The revenue arising from the cess , estimated to be in the vicinity of ten thousand crore 
rupees , can then be used to address serious issues within our country that contributes to the 
reasons high - skill labourers have when choosing to leave the country , such as, inter- alia , 
lack of high -paying engineering and technology jobs and lack of research and development 
funding and infrastructure . 

Hence, this Bill. 
NEW DELHI; 

RABINDRA KUMAR JENA 
July 3 , 2017 . 


194 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


PRESIDENT S RECOMMENDATION UNDER ARTICLES 117 (1) AND 274 ( 1) 

OF THE CONSTITUTION 


[Copy of Letter No . 370152/51/2017 - TPL dated 13 November, 2017 from Shri Arun Jaitley, 
Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs to the Secretary -General , Lok Sabha ). 
The President, having been informed of the subject matter of the Indian Diaspora and Education 
Infrastructure (Brain Drain Cess ) Bill , 2017 by ShriRabindra Kumar Jena ,Member of Parliament, 
recommends under articles 117 (1 ) and 274 ( 1 ) of the Constitution , the introduction of the Bill 
in Lok Sabha . 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 23 of the Bill seeks to provide for establishment of Indian National Scholarship 
and Research Board . It also provides for appointment of members to the Board . The Bill 
therefore , if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India. It is 
estimated that a sum of rupees twenty crore would be involved as recurring expenditure per 
annum . 


A non -recurring expenditure of rupees ten crore is also likely to be involved . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


195 


MEMORANDUM OF DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Sub -section ( 3 ) of Section 6 empowers the Ministry of External Affairs to make rules 
for carrying out the provisions of that Section and make rules in addition to the provisions of 
that Section 

Sub -section (2 ) of Section 10 empowers the CentralGovernment to change the rebate 
on the total cess under the provisions of sub -section ( 1) of Section 10 and add rules in 
addition to Section 10 . 


Sub -section (7 ) of Section 11 empowers the Central Government to make rules in 
addition to Section 11 , to update the jurisdiction of tax authorities , or establish a body 
exclusively for the purposes of executing the provisions of this Act. 

Section 16 empowers the tax authorities to make rules in addition to the provisions of 
Section 11, Section 12 , Section 13, Section 14 , Section 15 , Section 16 , Section 17, Section 18 
and Section 20 of this Act. 


Sub - section (2 ) of Section 17 empowers the Central Government to make rules according 
to the recommendations sentby the tax authorities, for the purpose of executing the provisions 
of this Act. 


Sub -section ( 5 ) of Section 22 empowers the Indian National Scholarship and Research 
Board to make rules in addition to the provisions of Section 23 , Section 24 , Section 25 , 
Section 26 , Section 27 , Section 28 of this Act, as provided under Section 34 of this Act. 


Section 34 empowers the Indian National Scholarship and Research Board to make 
rules in addition to all Sections of Chapter V of this Act in order to provide for the expansion 
of the Fund , to revise and update the eligible institutions, individuals and recipients , to 
provide for strict compliance policies with penalties and other amendments to this Sections 
that the Board shall deem necessary, only through a unanimous decision by the members of 
the Board 


Sub -section (2 ) of Section 35 empowers the Central Government to , by notification , 
make rules in addition to Section 35 (1 ) to specifically distribute the funds to start- ups 
functioning in the fields prescribed in Section 29 of this Act 

Sub -section (2 ) of Section 41 empowers the tax authorities mentioned in Section 11 of 
this Act to make rules providing for the addresses including the address for electronic mail or 
electronic mail message to which the communication referred to in sub - section ( 1) may be 
delivered or transmitted to the person named therein . 

Sub -section (1) of Section 44 empowers the Central Board of Direct Taxes , in compliance 
with Section 11, Section 12 and Section 18 of this Act, subject to the approval of the Central 
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, to make rules for carrying out the provisions 
of this Act . 


Asthematter in respect of which rules may be made are generally matters of procedure 
and administrative details and it is not practicable to provide for them in the Bill itself, the 
delegation of legislative power is , therefore, of a normal character. 


196 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 278 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Representation of the People Act, 1951 . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 
commence 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Representation of the People (Amendment) Act, 
2017. 

( 2) It shall come into force on such date , as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


ment. 


Amendment 
of section 2 . 


2 . In section 2 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as 43 of 1951. 
the principal Act), in sub -section ( 1) , — 

(a ) after clause (bb ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely: 

" (bbb) " constitution of an association or body or political party " means 
thememorandum or rules and regulations of the association or body or political 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


197 


18 of 2013 . 


49 of 1976 . 


10A . 


party , as the case may be , containing particulars provided under clauses (a) to 
(g ) of sub- section (4 ) of section 29A ; 

(b ) after clause (e ) the following clauses shall be inserted , namely : 
(ea ) " ineligible donor" means : 

(i) a Government company, as defined in section 29B ; 

(ii ) a company that does not comply with the requirements of 
section 182 of the Companies Act, 2013; or 

(iii) any foreign source, as defined under clause (e ) of sub -section ( 1) 
of section 2 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation ) Act, 1976 ; 

(eb ) " particulars of contribution " shall be the amount of the contribution 
received by the political party or the candidate from the political party ; the 
name, address , and PAN card details, if applicable , of the donor ; the type of 
contribution , whether cash , cheque , bank transfer or gifts in kind ; and the date 
on which the contribution was received ; ; and 

( c ) after sub -clause (h ) the following sub -clause shall be inserted , 
namely : 

(ha ) “ qualified chartered accountant" means a member of a panel of 
chartered accountants , selected for the purpose of inspecting accounts related 

to the election by the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral;”.” 
3. In section 10A of the principal Act, 

Amendment 

of section 
(i) after the words " an account of election expenses", the words " and particulars of 
of contribution " shall be inserted ; and 

(ii ) in the long line , for the words " a period of three years " the words " a period 
of five years" shall be substituted . 
4 . In section 29A of the principal Act, — 

Amendment 

of section 
(a ) for sub -section (5 ), the following sub -section shall be substituted , namely : - 29A . 

" (5) The application under sub -section (1 ) shall be accompanied by a 
copy of the constitution of the association or body, by whatever name called 
and shall contain 

(a ) the name of the association or body and , if applicable , any 
acronyms or short forms of this name; 

(b ) the mission, aims and objectives of the association or body; 

(c ) the conditions, procedures and requirements for initiating and 
maintaining membership in the association or body ; 

(d ) the rights , duties and obligations of membership in the 
association or body; 

(e) the general organization and powers of internal divisions of the 
association or body, including governing bodies and local bodies at the 
national, state , district, ward and block levels, by whatever name called ; 

(f) the procedure according to which the association or body shall 
decide the appointment of its president, treasurer , secretary, and other 
office -bearers; 

(g ) the procedure according to which the association or body shall 
elect candidates to stand in local, state and national elections; 

(h ) the procedure according to which generalbody meetings can be 
requisitioned and conducted ; 


198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(i) the financial structure of the association or body and the procedure 
according to which budgetary decisions are enacted ; 

(j) a specific provision that the association or body shall bear true 
faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established , and 
to the principles of socialism , secularism and democracy, and would uphold 
the sovereignty , unity and integrity of India ; and 

(k ) such other matters as may be deemed fit by the Election 
Commission ." ; 


(b ) in sub -section ( 9 ), after the words "name, head office , office -bearers , address " 
the word " , constitution " shall be inserted ; and 


(c ) after sub -section (9 ), the following sub -section shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( 10 ) Where the Election Commission is satisfied that a registered National 
or State political party has failed , refused , or defied , by its conduct or otherwise, 
to observe the lawful directives issued by the Commission , including but not 
limited to , the provisions of the Model Code of Conduct for Guidance of Political 
Parties and Candidates as issued by the Commission in January, 1991 or as 
amended by it thereafter, the Commission may either suspend or withdraw its 
registration of such party , upon accounting for all available facts and 
circumstances and giving the party subject to such penalty a reasonable 

opportunity of being heard in this regard ." . 
5 . After section 29A of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted , 
namely : 


" 29AA . The Election Commission shall make publicly available , through electronic 
and print media, the constitution submitted by each political party under sub -section 
(5 ) of section 29A and shall ensure that constitution of a political party is available for 
as long as the party is registered ." . 


Insertion of 
new section 
29A . 
Constitution 
of a political 
party to be 
made 
available in 
public domain 
by the 
Election 
Commission . 
Substitution 
of new 
sections for 
section 29C . 


6 . For section 29C of the principal Act, the following sections shall be substituted , 
namely : 


Maintenance , 
audit and 
publication of 
accounts by 
politicial 
parties. 


" 29C . (1) Every recognised political party shall maintain , according to the financial 
year, complete and true accounts of all amounts received and expenditure incurred by it . 

(2) Every political party shall submit the accounts maintained under sub -section 
( 1) to the Election Commission within six months of the close of each financial year, 
duly audited by a qualified chartered accountant. 

(3 ) The Election Commission shall make publicly available , through 
electronic and print media , the accounts submitted by each political party under 
sub -section (2 ). 

(4 ) The Election Commission shall ensure that the accounts submitted under 
sub -section ( 2 ) are available for five years after their submission for public inspection , 
upon the payment of the prescribed fee . 

29D . (1) The treasurer of a political party or any other person authorised by the 
political party in this behalf shall , in each financial year, prepare a report in respect of 
the following, namely : 

(a ) the particulars of any cumulative contribution in excess of twenty 
thousand rupees received by such politicalparty from any eligible person in that 
financial year ; 


Declaration 
and 
publication 


of 


contribution 
received by 
political 
parties . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


199 


(b ) the particulars of any cumulative contribution in excess of fifty thousand 
rupees received by such political party from any eligible company in that financial 
year ; 

Explanation . For the purposes of this section , a " cumulative contribution " 
shall be the sum of all donations on behalf of any eligible person or company to a 
political party within the given financial year. 


43 of 1961. 


(2 ) The report under sub -section ( 1) shall be in such form as may be prescribed . 

(3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section ( 1 ), the treasurer of a 
political party or any other person authorised by the political party in this behalf shall , 
in the report referred to in sub - section (1 ), disclose the particulars of any contribution 
received from any eligible person or company if such contribution received by the 
political party in that financial year exceeds twenty crore rupees or twenty per cent of 
total contributions, whichever is less . 

(4 ) The report for a financial year under sub -section (1 ) shall be submitted by the 
treasurer of a political party or any other person authorised by the politicalparty in this 
behalf before the due date for furnishing a return of its income of that financial year 
under section 139 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 to the Election Commission, having been 
duly audited by a qualified chartered accountant. 

( 5 ) The Election Commission shall make publicly available, through 
electronic and print media , the report submitted by each political party under 
sub -section ( 1) . 

(6 ) The Election Commission shall ensure that the reports submitted under 
sub - section ( 1 ) are available for five years after their submission for public inspection , 
upon the payment of the prescribed fee . 

29E . ( 1) Every political party contesting an election shall , within thirty days after Declaration 
the date of an election , lodge with the Election Commission an account of its election 

publication of 
expenses, which shall be a true copy of such account maintained by the political party. 

expenditure 
Explanation . — ( 1) The payment of any election expenditure over twenty 

by the 
thousand rupees shall be made by the political parties via crossed account payee political 
cheque or draft or bank transfer . 

parties. 


and 


election 


43 of 1961. 


(2 ) The account under sub -section ( 1) shall be in such form as may be prescribed . 

(3 ) The Election Commission shall make publicly available , through electronic and 
print media , the accounts of election expenses and contributions submitted by 
each contesting candidate or their election agent under sub -section (1). 

(4 ) The district election officer shall ensure that the aforementioned accounts 
are available for five years after their submission for public inspection , upon the 
payment of the fee prescribed under Rule 88 of the Conduct of Election Rules , 1961. 

29F . (1) Where the Election Commission is satisfied that a political party ,without Penalty . 
justification , has failed to lodge audited accounts under section 29C , a contribution 
report under section 29D , or an election expenditure report under section 29E with the 
Election Commission within such time and manner as prescribed , such political party : 

(a ) notwithstanding anything contained in the Income Tax Act, 1961, shall 
not be entitled to any relief under that Act in the given financial year; 

(b ) shall be liable to a penalty of twenty five thousand rupees for each day 
of non -compliance , up to a period of ninety days: 

Provided that if default on payment of penalty or lodging of accounts 
continues beyond a period of ninety days, the Election Commission shall 


43 of 1961 . 


200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


withdraw registration of the political party upon giving a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard in this regard . 

( 2) Where the Election Commission finds that any of the report or account 
referred to in sub - section ( 1) is false in any particular, it shall levy a fine up to a 
maximum of fifty lakh rupees on such political party . 

( 3) Where, upon scrutiny of the reports or accounts referred to sub -section ( 1) 
or other verification , the Election Committee finds that a political party has accepted 
any contribution from an ineligible donor, the party shall be liable to a penalty of five 
times the amount of that contribution ." . 
7. In section 77 of the principal Act, 

( a ) in sub - section (1 ), for the words " the date on which he has been nominated " , 
the words " the date of notification of such election by the Election Commission " shall 
be substituted ; 


Amendment 
of section 77 . 


D 


. 


(b ) after sub -section (3 ), the following sub -sections shall be inserted , namely : 

" (4 ) Every candidate at an election shall , either by himself or by his election 
agent, keep an account of the particulars of the contributions received by the 
candidate after the date of notification of election . 

Explanation . — All contributions by a political party to its candidate shall 
be made by a crossed account payee cheque or draft or bank transfer. 

(5 ) The total of said contributions shall not exceed such amountas may be 
prescribed ." . 
8 . In section 78 of the principal Act, 

(a ) in sub- section (1), for the words " an account of his election expenses which 
shall be a true copy of the account" , the words " the accounts of his election expenses 
and his contributions received , which shall be true copies of the accounts" shall be 
substituted ; 


Amendment 
of section 78. 


(b ) after sub - section ( 1) , the following sub -sections shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( 2 ) The district election officer shall make publicly available , through 
electronic and print media, the accounts of election expenses and contributions 
submitted by each contesting candidate or their election agent under 
sub - section ( 1 ). 

(3 ) The district election officer shall ensure that the aforementioned 
accounts are available for five years after their submission for public inspection, 
upon the payment of the prescribed fee . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


201 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The Constitution of India and the Representation of the People Act, 1951 have 
provided for and protected free and fair elections , removed undue influence of money , crime, 
or unequally shared information , since 1950 .As India s political and financial systemsevolve , 
electoral laws must regularly be reviewed and reformed to ensure that the lacunae which 
encourage misconduct are removed . 

The laws governing disclosure of information are crucial for preventing the use of 
undemocratic , corrupt, and illegal practices to further political ambitions. Section 29A of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, specifies the requirements for political parties to 
register with the Election Commission , while sections 29C , 77, and 78 provide for the 
maintenance and lodging of accounts of donations received by political parties and election 
expenses of candidates. To support these current laws, new requirements should be 
implemented regarding the disclosure of internal practice and financial status of political 
agents . To this end , section 4 of this bill requires a political party to submit a public Constitution 
outlining their internal practices in order to register under the Commission , while sections 5 , 
6 , and 7 mandate the provision of financial accounts to the public in order to contest elections. 
In these accounts, the majority, if not all , of contributors should be disclosed , and those 
parties who fail to follow these rules should be penalized accordingly . 

Many cases of electoral misconduct could be avoided if the punishment, or the 
possibility thereof, was a strong enough deterrent in the face of significant benefits to a 
political career. The penalty for candidates who fail to lodge election accounts , as provided 
by section 10A , currently applies for amaximum of three years — an ineffective punishment, 
as a disqualified candidate can contest the next election , even if the maximum penalty is 
applied to their case .More egregious is the failure of Section 29C to impose an active penalty 
on political parties who fail to lodge elections accounts, instead only preventing offending 
parties from claiming that year s income tax benefits. Further, Section 29A provides for the 
registration of political parties, but does not directly allow the Commission to withdraw this 
recognition . If significant electoral offences are committed , the Commission should be able 
to sanction political parties through this process. The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 with a view to : 

(a ) extend the disqualification period such that the candidate cannot participate 
in the next election cycle; 

(b ) expresses the specific power of the Commission to de-register errantpolitical 
parties ; and 

(c) introduces additional penalties for non - compliance of political parties 
regarding the submission of financial accounts , including fines and de -recognition of 
transgressing political parties . 

Hence, this Bill. 


New DELHI; 
July 3 , 2017 . 


RABINDRA KUMAR JENA 


202 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


PRESIDENT S RECOMMENDATION UNDER ARTICLE 117 (1), 117 ( 3) AND 274 ( 1) 

OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA 


[Copy of letter No. H . 11018 / 10 /2017 -Leg . II dated 30 November, 2017 from 
Shri P. P. Chaudhary , Minister of State in the Ministry of Law and Justice and Corporate 
Affairs to the Secretary General,Lok Sabha ). 

The President, having been informed of the subject matter of the Representation of the 
People (Amendment) Bill, 2017 (Amendment of section 2 etc.) by Shri Rabindra Kumar Jena, 
M .P ., recommends the introduction under articles 117 ( 1 ) and 274 ( 1 ) and the consideration of 
the Bill in Lok Sabha under article 117 ( 3) of the Constitution . 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 5 of the Bill vide proposed section 29AA , provides for the Election Commission 
to make publicly available the constitution of a political party. Clause 6 , vide proposed 
sections 290 ,29D and 29E provides for the Election Commission to make publicly available 
the details of accounts, contributions and expenditure , respectively of a political party. The 
Bill, therefore , if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It 
is estimated that a sum of about rupees five crore may involve as recurring expenditure per 
annum . 


No non -recurring expenditure is likely to be involved . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


203 


Bill No . 120 oF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the establishment of a permanent Bench of the High Court of 

Orissa at Balasore 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the High Court of Orissa ( Establishment of a Permanent Short title . 
Bench at Balasore Act, 2017 . 


2 . There shall be established a permanent Bench of the High Court of Orissa at Balasore Establishment 
and such Judges of the High Court of Orissa, being not less than three in number , as the Chief of a 
Justice of that High Court may from time to timenominate, shall sit at Balasore in order to pomaner 
exercise the jurisdiction and power for the timebeing vested in that High Court in respect of High Court of 
cases arising in the districts of Balasore , Mayurbhanj, Bhadrak , Kendujhar, Deogarh , Orissa at 
Sundargarh , Jharsuguda and Sambalpur. 

Balasore . 


204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The High Court ofOrissa is located at Cuttak in the State of Odisha . The judiciary is an 
important pillar on which the Indian Democracy rests . When a person gets no relief from 
other quarters , judiciary is often his final resort . But even in judiciary, in view of the large 
number of pending cases, there is not much possibility of getting speedy justice . If justice is 
delayed ,it amounts to denial of justice. There has always been a demand for the establishment 
of a permanent High Court for the northern districts due to the large majority of pending 
cases in the Orissa High Court arising from the northern districts . The northern districts of 
Odisha are more densely populated as compared to the rest of the State, which also shows 
the need for a permanent Bench . 


The Bill, therefore, seeks to establish a permanent Bench of High Court of Orissa at 
Balasore . A permanent Bench of the High Court, if established at Balasore, would go a long 
way in providing much needed relief to those who are not in position to bear the burden of 
expenditure on account of travelling to attend the hearings of their cases at the High Court 
at Cuttak . 


Hence , this Bill . 


RABINDRA KUMAR JENA 


NEW DELHI; 
July 4 , 2017. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


205 


Bill No. 212 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: — 


Short title. 


Amendment 
of Article 
123 . 


1. This Act may be called the Constitution ( Amendment) Act, 2017. 
2. In article 123 of the Constitution , in clause (2 ), — 
(i) for sub - clause ( a ), the following sub -clause shall be substituted , namely : - 

“ (a ) shall be laid before both the Houses of Parliament as the first order of 
business in the session held immediately succeeding its promulgation and shall 
cease to operate unless resolutions disapproving or approving the Ordinance 
are passed by both Houses, in that session , or in the subsequent session , 
summoned notmore than six months later ; and ” ; and 

( ii ) in the Explanation . — for the words “ six weeks” , the words " six months" 
shall be substituted . 


206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Amendment 
of article 213 . 


3. In article 213 of the Constitution , in clause (2 ), — 


(i) for sub -clause (a ), the following sub -clause shall be substituted , namely : 

“ (a ) shall be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the State , or where 
there is a Legislative Council in the State, before both the Houses , as the first 
order of business, in the session held immediately succeeding its promulgation 
and shall cease to operate unless resolutions disapproving or approving the 
Ordinance are passed by both Houses in that session or in the subsequent 
session , summoned notmore than six months later; and” ; and 


Amendment 
of article 239 . 


(ii) in the Explanation . — for the words “ six weeks” , the words “ six months” 
shall be substituted . 

4 . In article 239B of the Constitution , in clause ( 2), for sub - clause ( a ), the following 
sub -clause shall be substituted , namely : 

“ (a ) shall be laid before the Legislature of the Union territory as the first order 
of business in the session held immediately succeeding its promulgation and shall 
cease to operate unless resolutions disapproving or approving the Ordinance are 
passed by the Legislative Assembly in that session , or in the subsequent session 
summoned not more than six months later ; and.” . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


207 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Constitution places the responsibility of framing , drafting and passing laws in the 
able hands of the Legislature — the popularly elected body which represents the will of the 
people . A facet of this power is extended to the executive in the form of an Ordinance which 
the President or Governor can promulgate under certain emergent conditions. 

In order to safeguard this power from excesses, the framers of the Constitution have 
gone ahead and set conditions when an Ordinance would cease to operate if not placed 
before the Legislature within the notified period . The spirit of the Constitution is consistent 
with the principle of Legislative supremacy in India s democratic set up ; hence the Legislature 
must have the final say in making of law . 

However, since the beginning of the first Lok Sabha in 1952 ,637 Ordinances have 
been promulgated . The understanding of emergent conditions has been stretched to include 
core legislations involving land , financial reforms, foreign direct investments etc . In some 
States, Ordinances have been promulgated and re -promulgated for fifteen years without 
being laid and voted in the Legislative Assembly or Council. 

In 1986 , the Supreme Court held that the power to promulgate an Ordinance is a power 
to be used to meet an extraordinary situation and it cannot be allowed to be perverted to 
serve political ends.More recently , in January 2017 , the Supreme Court clarified that laying 
an Ordinance before the Legislature is a mandatory constitutional obligation cast upon the 
Government of the day. Re- promulgating Ordinances without ever being put to vote for 
years is a fraud on the Constitution . 

The Constitution in the articles 123, 213 and 239 has not explicitly stated that an 
Ordinance needs to be laid on the Houses of Legislature summoned succeeding its 
promulgation .Hence, this ambiguity is continually misused by the executive to simply change 
the wording and re-promulgate the Ordinance . 

This Bill seeks to make it constitutionally binding on the executive to lay an Ordinance 
promulgated before on Legislature in the session held immediately succeeding its 
promulgation . It seeks to mandate that unless the House passes a resolution of approval or 
disapprovalof the Ordinance , within that session , it would expire automatically. It also gives 
the executive enough time by allowing it to be placed for approval or disapprovalin the next 
session , not more than six months later. 


Hence , this Bill . 


RABINDRA KUMAR JENA 


NEW DELHI; 
November 28 , 2017 . 


208 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 8 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for establishment of a Board for determination of prices of consumer 
goods and services commonly used by public in the country and for matters 

connected therewith or incidental thereto . 


Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1. (1) This Act may be called the Consumer Goods Price Fixation Board Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
( 3) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) "Board " means the Consumer Goods Price Fixation Board constituted under 
section 4 ; 


Definitions. 


(b ) " consumer goods" means any grocery item including milk , bread , cooking 
oils , cosmetic items, cloths, vegetables, fruits, finished goods or services which are 
commonly used by public and such other items as the Central Government may, by 
notification , in this regard , notify ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


209 


(c ) " Prescribed " means prescribed by the rules made under this Act; and 

(d ) words and expressions used in this Act but not defined and defined in the 
Consumer Protection Act , 1986 , shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them 
in that Act. 


68 of 1986 . 


3 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the timebeing in force , the Board to fix 
CentralGovernment shall fix the price of all the consumer goods and services through the the price of all 
Board established under section 4 . 

the Consumer 
Goods and 
Services. 


4 . ( 1) The Central Government shall,by notification in the OfficialGazette , establish , Establishment 
for achieving the objective mentioned in section 3, a Board to be known as the Consumer of Consumer 

Goods Price 
Goods Price Fixation Board . 

Fixation 
( 2 ) The Board shall consist of a chairperson and such number of members as may be B 

Board . 
prescribed for carrying out its functions. 

(3) The salary and allowances payable to , and other terms and conditions of service of 
the Chairperson and members shall be such as may be prescribed . 

(4) The Board shall have its office in the capital city of each State and Union territory. 

( 5) The Board shall have such number of officers and employees as may be necessary 
for performing its functions. 

5 . ( 1) The Board shall fix the prices of all the consumer goods and services in the Functions of 
country. 

the Board 
(2) The Board shall, before fixing the prices, take into account the following factors 
besides other things : 

(i) quality of products ; 
(ii) demand and supply of products ; 
( iii) cost of production ; 
(iv) loss during production ; 

(v) price of accessories or which directly or indirectly affect the price factor of 
the products and services; 

(vi) any other relevant factor as may be deemed necessary. 
( 3) The Board may fix different prices for different products and services in different 
States and in accordance with quality of the product and input cost and other relevant 
factors. 

(4 ) The Board shall, from time to time, after taking into relevant factors revise the prices 
fixed for different products and services . 


6 . The Board shall cause to publish the prices fixed for various consumer goods and 
services in newspaper, radio , television , cable network . 


Publicity to 
the prices 
fixed by 
Board . 


7 . If any person contravenes any decision of the Board he shall be punished with three Penalty . 
years simple imprisonment and a fine which may extend upto rupees fifty thousand . 

8. ( 1) Where a person committing a contravention of any of the provisions of this Act Offences by 
or of any rule, direction or order made thereunder is a company, every person who , at the time Companies. 
the contravention was committed , was in charge of, and was responsible to , the company for 
the conduct of business of the company as well as the company, shall be guilty of the 
contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly : 


210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


Provided that nothing contained in this sub -section shall render any such person 
liable to punishment if he proves that the contravention took place without his knowledge or 
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent such contravention . 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (1 ), where a contravention of 
any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule , direction or order made thereunder has been 
committed by a company and it is proved that the contravention has taken place with the 
consent or connivance of or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director,manager, 
secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager , secretary or other officer 
shall also be deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded 
against and punished accordingly. 
Explanation . — For the purpose of this section : 

(i) " company" means anybody corporate and include a firm or other association 
of individuals; and 

( ii ) " director" , in relation to a firm ,means a partner in the firm . 
9 . If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government may , by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions, not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for 
removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such orders shall be made after the expiry of the period of three years 
from the date of commencement of this Act. 

10 . The provisions of this Act shallhave effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force on the subject and save 
aforesaid the provisions of the Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
law for the timebeing in force . 

11 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay , by notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Overriding 
effect of the 
Act . 


Power to 
make rules. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


211 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


There are many initiatives that have been taken with the sole objective of protecting 
the rights of the consumers. The government has also brought forward many legislative 
measures in this regard . These legislations would help consumer fight for his rights and are 
helpful in checking the malpractices. But, there is hardly any check on the prices of consumer 
goods. It has been seen that after one percent increase in the taxation or even for no reason , 
many unscrupulous manufacturers would enhance price of their products, sometimes,manifold . 

There is hardly any relationship between the quality and quantity of their product on the one 
hand and the price, on the other. 

This problem is acute in the rural areas . In villages, commodities of such inferior 
quality are being sold at exorbitant prices. Of late there has been unbridled rise in the prices 
of essential commodities and other consumer products. The goods of daily use have gone 
out of the reach of the common man . The same is the position of various services commonly 
used by public . 

In order to fix the prices of consumer goods and services, it has been proposed that a 
Board shall be set up with its offices in every State and Union Territories. The Board , apart 
from determining the price of products , shall also act as a check on the agencies who 
increase the prices at their own will . Since the functions and policies of the Board are 
regulated by the Central government, the prices of the product will be uniform throughout 
the country to some extent. 


Hence , this Bill. 


RAJESHRANJAN 


NEW DELHI; 
June 30 , 2017 . 


212 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for establishment of a Board for the price fixation of the 
consumer goods and services. The Board shall have its offices in the capital city of each 
State and Union territory. The Bill, therefore, if enacted , would involve expenditure from the 
consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure of about 
rupees ten crore is likely to be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees five crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of details only , the delegation of 
Legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


213 


Bill No. 216 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for payment of remunerative price for raw jute to the jute growers, 
insurance of jute crop free of cost and for overall welfare of jute growers and 

for matters connected therewith . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. (1) This Actmay be called the Jute Growers (Remunerative Price and Welfare ) Act, Short title , 
2017. 

extent and 


commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3) It shall comeinto force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the officialGazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a ) " Fund " means the Jute Growers Welfare Fund constituted under section 5 ; 


Definitions. 


214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(b ) "jute grower" means any person who cultivates jute and obtains fibre 
therefrom ; and 


Procurement 
of raw jute and 
fixation of its 
remunerative 
price . 


(c) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act . 
3 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall procure the entire jute crop fibre from jute growers 
through such agency as may be prescribed . 

(2) The Central Government shall fix remunerative price of raw jute every year after 
taking into consideration 

(a ) increase in the price of jute seeds , pesticides, fertilizers and other inputs ; 
(b ) total investment made by the jute growers; and 
(c ) such other factors, as may be prescribed . 


Insurance . 


Constitution 
of Jute 
Growers 
Welfare Fund. 


4 . The entire jute produced by the jute growers shall be compulsorily insured free of 
costby the Central Government against natural calamities, fall in the yield of jute, fall in the 
price of jute and such other eventualities as may be prescribed . 

5 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment, shall , by notification in the OfficialGazette constitute 
the Jute Growers and Workers Welfare Fund for the purposes of this Act with initial corpus 
of rupees one thousand crore to be provided by the Central Governmentby due appropriation 
made by Parliament, by law in this behalf and thereafter the Central and concerned State 
Government shall contribute to the Fund to such extent and in such manner, as may be 
prescribed . 


(2 ) The Fund may also a receive moneys from corporate houses, financial institutions , 
individuals and bodies in the form of contributions or donations. 


Utilization of 
the Fund . 


6 . The Fund shall be utilized , - 

(a ) to provide financial assistance to jute growers for purchasing jute seeds, 
pesticides and fertilizers and in cases of low yields of jute or loss of their crops due to 
rains, storms, floods, hailstorms or drought; 

(b ) to pay compensation to the next of kin of jute growers in the event of their 
death ; 

(c) to provide free health facilities to jute growers and their families ; 
(d ) to provide assistance to the jute growers in the event of disability ; and 

(e) for such other purposes as may be prescribed by the Central Government. 
7. ( 1) The CentralGovernment may, by notification in the OfficialGazette,make rules 
for carrying out the purpose of this Act. 

( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Power to make 
rules. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


215 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Jute fibre, also known as golden fibre , used to hold a glorious position in our country. 
Jute is one of the main commercial crops of our country. Jute fibre as an industrial product is 
used to prepare bio -degradable , eco - friendly cheap bags. But of late, jute growers in the 
country are facing problems as they are not getting remunerative price for their produce . Jute 
cultivation is turning out to be a non -profitable venture for the farmers due to increase in the 
prices of jute seeds, fertilizers , pesticides and other inputs. Due to high investment involved 
in the cultivation of jute, farmers have to go for loans and on account of being unable to 
repay the loans, they are living under great distress . Being a cash crop , insurance facility is 
also notavailable to the jute farmers. Growing use of synthetic fibre is adding to the woes of 
jute growers. 

The condition of jute growers in the leading jute producing States of West Bengal and 
Bihar is pitiable . Farmers of these States are getting into debt trap and in many cases, their 
financial condition is compelling them to take the extreme step of committing suicide. 

Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Central Government to fix the remunerative 
price of jute ; provide for free and compulsory insurance of jute crops and constitute a Jute 
Growers Welfare Fund to meet various needs of jute growers . 

Hence , this Bill. 


RAJESH RANJAN 


NEW DELHI; 
November 29 , 2017 . 


216 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for procurementof entire jute produced in the country and 
also fixation of remunerative price of jute by the Central Government. Clause 4 provides for 
compulsory insurance of jute crop free of cost by the Central Government against natural 
calamities, fall in the yield of jute and such other eventualities. Clause 5 provides for the 
constitution of a Jute Growers Welfare Fund . The Bill, therefore , if enacted , would involve 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure 
of about rupees three thousand crore may be involved per annum from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . 

A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees one thousand crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 7 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


217 


Bill No. 221 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the establishment of an Inter- State River Water Authority to look 

into regulation and development of dams on inter- State rivers, controlling 
developmental activities on inter- State rivers, monitoring the safety 
and effects on habitat of dams on inter- State rivers and for 

all matters connected therewith and 

incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Inter - State River Water Authority Act, 2017 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date , as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2. It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should 
take under its control the regulation and development of inter- State rivers and dams built 
over them to the extent here in after provided . 


Declaration 
as to the 
expediency of 
Union control. 


Definitions. 


3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a ) “ annual safety audit report” means a report giving the safety status of 
specified dams and details of effects of specified dams on surrounding environment 
and habitat including human settlements . 


218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(b ) “ Authority ” means the Inter - State River Water Authority established under 
section 4 ; 


Constitution 
of Inter-State 
River Water 
Authority . 


( c ) “ dam ” means any artificial barrier including appurtenant works constructed 
across rivers or tributaries thereof with a view to impound , store or divertwater; 

(d ) “ inter- State river” means a river which originates in one State and passes 
through one or more States other than the State in which the river has its origin before 
it drains into the sea and also include rivulets, tributaries and lakes which have its 
source from an inter - State river; 

(e ) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by the rules made under this Act. 
(1) “ specified dams” means a dam which is - 

(i) constructed over an inter -State river ; and 

(ii) above fifteen meters in height, measured from the lowest portion of the 
general foundation area to the crest ; or between ten to fifteen meters in height 
and capacity of the reservoir is not less than half a million cubic metres ; 

(g ) “ State” means the States which have one or more than one inter- State river 
flowing within their territory; 

(h ) “ State Dam Safety Cell” means the State Dam Safety Cell constituted under 
section 7 . 

4 . ( 1) With effect from such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification in the 
Official Gazette , appoint, there shall be constituted , for the purposes of this Act, an Authority , 
to be known as the Inter- State River Water Authority consisting of the following members , 
namely : 

(i) Chairperson , Central Water Commission — ex -officio Chairperson ; 

( ii ) Commissioner (Projects), Ministry of Water Resources, River Development 
and Ganga Rejuvenation — ex - officio Member ; 

(iii)Member (Hydro ), Central Electricity Authority — ex -officio Member ; 
( iv) Director General,Geological Survey of India — ex - officio Member ; 
(v) Director General , Indian Meteorological Department — ex -officio Member ; 

(vi) One Scientist, Grade E , Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate 
Change — ex- officio Member ; 

(vii) Engineers -in -Chief or equivalent officers of Irrigation Departments of States 
having specified dams — ex -officio Members; 

( 2 ) The Central Government shall appoint such number of officers and staff as it 
considers necessary for the functioning of the Authority . 

( 3) The salary , allowances and terms of conditions of services of officers and staff of 
the Authority shall be such , as may be prescribed . 

5 . ( 1) The Authority shall meet at such times and places and shall observe such rules 
of procedure in regard to transaction ofbusiness at its meetings as may be prescribed by the 
CentralGovernment: 

Provided that the Authority shall meet at least once every three months. 

( 2 ) The expenditure incurred to attend meetings by the Members referred to in 
sub - clauses (i) to (vii) of section 4 , shall be borne by their concerned controlling authorities . 
(3 ) There shall be a Steering Committee consisting of the followingmembers, namely: 

(a ) Chairperson , Central Water Commission ; 

(b ) Commissioner (Projects), Ministry of Water Resources, River Development 
and Ganga Rejuvenation ; and 


Meetings of 
the Authority 
and Selection 
of the Steering 
Committee . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


219 


( c ) two members selected from Members referred to in sub - clause (vii) of 
section 4 . 


(4 ) The twomembers in Steering Committee amongMembers referred to in sub -clause 
( vii ) of section 4 , shall have a term of six months and on expiry of their term , another two 
members shall be chosen amongst themselves. 


(5 ) All issues that come up before the Authority shall be decided by a majority of votes 
ofmembers of the Steering Committee , and in the event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson , 
Central Water Commission , shall have a casting vote. 

(6 ) The Steering Committee shall, on every issue , deliberate and take suggestions from 
all members of the Authority present, before going in for a vote. 

(7 ) The final decision of the Authority shall be taken by the Steering Committee . 

6 . ( 1 ) The Authority shall discharge such functions as may be necessary to ensure 
equitable distribution of water from inter - State rivers to respective States involved , ensure 

cure 
proper inspection and maintenance of all specified dams in the country and ensure their safe 
functioning. 

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub - section ( 1), the Authority 
shall — 


Functions of 
the Authority . 


( a ) analyse water needs of each state considering rainfall patterns, agricultural 
needs of State and deciding on the amount of water to be released to said States 
through specified dams within the States . 

(b ) revise the existing water awards to States once in every six months, taking 
into account drought time, to ensure that upper riparian States are not affected . 

(c) monitor and evaluate dam safety practices in all specified dams and suggest 
guidelines to bring dam safety practices in conformity with latest international practices 
consistent with Indian conditions ; 

(d) monitor broadly the functioning of State Dam Safety Cells , as the case may 


be . 


(e) look into and study environmental effects due to specified damssuch as soil 
erosion , deforestation , effect on wildlife and other existing water bodies and advise 
the CentralGovernment on appropriate remedial actions. 


(f) study the effects of specified dams on people living in surrounding areas and 
advice the Central Government on necessary rehabilitation measures. 

(8 ) examine all proposals for construction of dams on inter- State rivers and no 
new dams shall be constructed on inter - State rivers without prior approval from the 
Authority . 

(h ) redress grievances of States with regard to decisionsmade by the Authority 
and resolve it in a time bound manner by forming a Committee of three members as 
specified in section 8. 

( 3) The Authority shall also disseminate the knowledge and information collected to 
the State Dam Safety Cells . 

7 . (1 ) Every State having one or more specified dams shall establish under its Water 
Resource Department or Irrigation Department or the department dealing with matters of 
water resources, a separate Cell known as the State Dam Safety Cell headed by an Officer not 
below the rank of Superintending Engineer or equivalent. 

(2) The constitution of the State Dam Safety Cellshall be such as may be prescribed by 
the State Government. 


State Dam 
Safety Cells . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


= 


(3 ) The administrative and other expenses of the State Dam Safety Cells shall be borne 
by the concerned State Governments. 
(4) Every State Dam Safety Cellshall 

(a ) keep perpetual surveillance ; 
(b ) monitormaintenance ; 


(c ) carry out routine inspection, 


of all specified dams falling within its State , to ensure continued safety of such specified 
dams and take such measures as may be necessary to address safety concerns that are 
noticed . 


Dispute 
Resolution 
within the 
Authority . 


(5 ) Every State Dam Safety Cell shall provide information regarding all specified dams 
under its jurisdiction and shall act with prior approval from the Authority as and when 
required by the Authority. 

(6 ) Every State Dam Safety Cell shall submit an audit report every three months, of all 
specified dams under its jurisdiction , to the Authority. 

8 . ( 1) The Authority shall constitute a permanent expert redressal committee consisting 
of three members selected by the Steering Committee from amongst persons who have 
served as a Judge of the Supreme Court of India . 

(2 ) If it appears to the Government of any State that the decision of the Authority is in 
any way against the interests of the particular State or if any State refuses to implement the 
terms proposed by the Authority , the said State shall have the right to approach the expert 
redressal committee . 

( 3) The redressal committee shall submit its report on any case that arises before it 
within a period of six months to the Authority . 

9. The Central Government, shall from time to time provide, after due appropriation 
made by Parliamentby law in this behalf , requisite funds for carrying out the purposes of this 
Act. 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds. 


Power to 
remove 
difficulty . 


Power to make 
rules. 


10 . If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government, in consultation with the State Governments ,may make such order or give such 
direction , not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act , as appears to it to be necessary or 
expedient for the removal of any difficulty . 

11 . (1 ) The Central Government, in consultation with the State Governments,may by 
notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , asmay be after it is made, before each 
House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which may be 
comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the expiry of 
the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions, aforesaid , both 
Houses agree to making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have affect only in such modified from or be of 
no effect, as the case may be; so , however,that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previusly done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


221 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Rivers are rich sources of habitat. People from past ,have migrated and settled around 
rivers . Thus it shows how important water sources are for survival of humans. Our country , 
has fourteen major rivers . All of them are inter-State rivers .More than 21 States have at least 
one or more inter- State rivers flowing through them . Conflicts arising between States in 
sharing the river water has been at the forefront of issues in our country . A Central Control 
over inter State dams is lacking and river water Tribunals, which adjudicate on disputes , 
have prolonged the cases without any fruitful results. 

As civilizational demand increases, river water which was mainly used for irrigation 
purposes , now also has to cater to needs of fast growing industries. Today , each State is 
competing for the welfare of its own people and hence trying to maximise utilisation of the 
river water flowing within their territory. Compounded by the situation of uneven monsoons, 
our farmers, who are the backbone of this country, are the worst affected . Disputes between 
States have led to bad blood between its people thereby in a subtle way compromising the 
integrity of the nation . Our founding fathers had put their minds into this problem and had 
enshrined certain powers in the Constitution for the Union Government in this regard . The 
provision under article 262 , empowers the Parliament to enact lawson adjudicating disputes 
between States regarding river water. 

Therefore it is proposed in this Bill to constitute an Inter -State River Water Authority 
consisting of members from the concerned ministries, expert bodies and from all States 
having at least one Inter- State River within their territory. It is proposed that this Authority 
will have the exclusive powers to regulate flow of water and monitor water levels on all dams 
present over inter-State rivers. Any dispute arising between the State and the Authority will 
be taken up by a Committee formed under the Authority consisting of three retired Supreme 
Court judges. This Committee should give its decision in six months and it will be bonding on 
the States. Any new projects on inter - State rivers will require the prior approval of the 
Authority . It will also have the powers to issue detailed guidelines regarding dam safety by 
establishing Dam safety councils in States to carry out regular audits and frame guidelines 
advising the Government on issues relating to rehabilitation and compensation for people 
affected due to dams on inter- State rivers . 


This Bill , by providing the power to regulate dams on inter- State rivers , to an 
independent body comprising of the Union , States and other experts, will help solve the 
problem of States acting on their own accord . This will result in an atmosphere of better 
cooperation among the stakeholders, leading to greater efficientusage of our water resources . 

Hence , this Bill. 


RAJESH RANJAN 


NEW DELHI; 
29 November, 2017 . 


222 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for the constitution of Inter- State River Water Authority 
and also appointment of such number of officers and staffs for its functioning . Clause 9 
makes it obligatory for the Central Government to provide requisite funds for carrying out 
the purposes of this Bill . The Bill , therefore, if enancted will involve recurring expenditure of 
one hundred crore rupees per annum which shall be not from the Consolidated Fund of India . 
A non - recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees fifty crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make necessary rules , by 
notification in the official gazette for carrying out the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will 
relate to matters of details only. The delegation of legislative power is of a normal character . 


Sec . 2 ] 


Suc.2) 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


223 


2 


Bill No. 29 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


1. This Actmay be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

Short title . 
2. In article 85 of the Constitution, in clause (I), the following proviso shall be added at Amendment 
the end, namely : 

of article 85 . 
" Provided that the number of sittings of each House of Parliament in all sessions 
in a calendar year shall not be less than one hundred and twenty days." 


224 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Constitution has vested the power of the purse in the hands of chosen 
representatives of the people , thus sanctifying the principle of no taxation without 
representation . This accountability of the Government to citizens is implemented through 
scrutiny of its work by the Parliament. 

From the citizen s point of view , parliamentary oversight inquiries offer an avenue to 
express views about the Government s management of public affairs . This direct citizen 
testimony is a valuable way to humanize national Governance . 

There are several points of overlap between Parliament s two most crucial functions 
that of law making and oversight. Statutory lawmaking remains almost universally the preserve 
of Parliament. While most countries across the globe have specified a calendar of sitting 
days for their Parliament functioning, the makers of our Constitution left the power to the 
decision -makers of the day . 

The highest institution of a democratic setup is the Parliament. It represents the will of 
the people and therefore the Parliament as an institution of accountability needs to be 
strengthened for a parliamentary democracy to prosper. The Bill seeks to ensure a minimum 
number of sitting days to ensure that there is Constitutional sanction and thus greater 
accountability for the Parliament to convene for a specific period of time. 

During the first two decades of Parliament, Lok Sabha met for an average of a little more 
than one hundred twenty days a year. This has comedown to approximately seventy days in 
the last decade. To ensure that our Parliament functions in the spirit and resolve that it was 
meant to , we need to have structural safeguards that strengthen the Parliament as an institution 
and not let it remain solely at the bidding of the Executive . 

Hence, this Bill. 


GAURAV GOGOI 


NEW DELHI; 
December 1, 2017. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


225 


Bill No. 80 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for prohibition of using telecommunication system for making hoax 
calls and short message service and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Prohibition of Using Telecommunication System for 
Hoax Calls Act, 2017 . 

(2) It extends to the whole of India . 
(3 ) It shall come into force at once . 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 


Definitions. 


226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(b ) " telecommunication system "means any mode of electronic telecommunication 
and includes any landline telephone , public telephone booth , mobile phone, satellite 
phone or internet phone ; and 

(c) words and expressions used but not defined in this Act but defined in the 
Indian Penal Code , 1860 , the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and the Information Technology 45 of 1860. 

13 of 1885 
Act, 2000 shall have the samemeaning as is respectively assigned to them in those 

DO 21 of 2000 . 
Acts . 

3. (1) The use of any telecommunication system for hoax calls or hoax Short Message 
Service (SMS) or for any other similar purpose is hereby prohibited . 

(2 ) Whoever contravenes the provisions of sub -section ( 1) shall be deemed to be 
guilty of committing an offence ofmaking a hoax call under this Act. 


Prohibition of 
using tele- 
communication 
system for 
hoax calls or 
hoax Short 
Message 
Service . 


Penalty . 


4 . Any person who is found guilty of making a hoax call or hoax Short Message Service 
(SMS) with an intention to spread fear or panic in public shall be punished with rigorous 
imprisonment for a minimum term of five years which may extend upto fifteen years and with 
fine of fifteen lakh rupees . 

5 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code ofCriminal Procedure, 1973 , every 
offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable and non -bailable . 


Offence to be 
cognizable . 


Overriding 
effect of the 
Act. 


6 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the timebeing in force . 


Act not in 
derogation of 
other laws. 


7 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
law for the time being in force . 


Power to 
make rules . 


8 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay , by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act by the CentralGovernment shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total 
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive 
sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 
both the Houses agree that the rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect 
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


227 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The menace of hoax calls or Short Message Service ( SMS) made from local public 
telephone booths, mobile phones , internet phones etc . for spreading false information aimed 
at spreading fear or panic or sexual harassment has reached alarming levels . Everyday 
the newspapers are filled with reports of misuse of the telecommunication system by anti 
social elements for making false /hoax calls or SMS raising a serious security concern for our 
nation which adversely affects the functioning of police forces and disrupts public services 
at large . 

The culprits of such nefarious acts are encouraged to continue their activities since 
the punishment for such terrible acts is very minimal. It is felt that if harsh punishment is 
imposed on perpetrators of such heinous acts, they would discontinue their activities . 
Therefore, it is proposed to provide for harsher punishmentfor making hoax calls to curb this 
nuisance . 

Hence ,this Bill. 


DARSHANA VIKRAM JARDOSH 


NEW DELHI; 
March 30 , 2017. 


228 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


MEMORANDUMREGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


229 


Bill No. 260 OF 2017 


A Bill to regulate the fee charged for private healthcare services with a view to making 
them affordable for the common man and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. (i) This Actmay be called the Private Healthcare Sector (Regulation of Fees ) Act, Short title , 
2017 . 

extent and 


commencement. 


( ii ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(iii) It shall comeinto force such date as the CentralGovernment may,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


230 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions. 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " Committee" means the Special High Power Committee constituted under 
section 3 ; 

(b ) " diagnostic laboratory " means a place owned or run by an industrial or a 
group of persons or by private or corporate hospital where pathological tests or 
investigations are conducted ; 


(c ) "medical consultancy and other allied services " includes , 


(i) consultancy by qualified medical practitioners concerning all aspects 
of medical treatment/surgery whether in private clinics/hospitals or in the 
corporate hospitals ; 


(ii ) all such pathological tests as are prescribed by the qualified doctors 
whether in a private clinic or in a private and/ or corporate hospital; and 

( iii ) all such scanning or imaging services, namely , X - ray , ultra sound , 
MRI, CT scan or any other new health treatment method employed in future 
whether in a private clinic or in a private/corporate hospital; 

(d ) "medical practitioner" means a person duly qualified and registered by the 
Medical Council of India and engaged in the business of consultancy and providing 
medical treatment to patients whether as a private practitioner or in a private or 
corporate hospital ; and 

(e) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3 . (1 ) The Central Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette , constitute 
a Committee to be known as the SpecialHigh Power Committee to determine the fee charged 
by a private medical practitioner and private /corporate hospitals for providing medical 
treatment including charges levied for pathological tests, scanning and imaging . 
( 2 ) The Committee shall consist of - 
(i) The Minister of Health and Family 

- Chairperson , 
Welfare Government of India , 

ex - officio ; 
( ii ) Chairperson of the Department 

- member; 
Related Parliament Standing 
Committee on Health and Family Welfare , 


Constitution of 
the High 
Power 
Committee for 
regularization 
of charges by 
private 
Healthcare 
services. 


members ; 


members ; 


( iii) five representatives of private 
Hospitals, Laboratory including 
Government run hospitals /Laboratory, 
(iv) two representatives of 
Non -Governmental Organisation in the health 
sector, 
(v ) five representatives ofMedical 
Practitioners, 


members ; 


members ; 


( vi) one representative from each 
National Political Party , 


(vii) the Secretary to the Government of 
India , Ministry ofHealth and Family 
Welfare . 


Secretary, 
ex -officio; 


( 3) The members referred to in clauses ( iii), (iv ) and (v ) shall be appointed by the 
Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


231 


(4 ) Themembers referred to in clause ( vi ) shallbe appointed by the CentralGovernment 
on the recommendation of the respective political party. 

4 . The Central Government shall provide the Committee such financial and other 
assistance as may be necessary for the efficient functioning of the Committee. 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
assistance to 
the 
Committee. 


5 . The Committee shall, - 

Functions of 

the 
( i) fix the fee to be charged by the medical practitioners from patients or any Committee . 
other person /corporate paying on behalf of patient or health insurance providers 
either in their private clinics or in a private hospital/corporate hospital after taking 
into consideration such factors as may be necessary ; and 

( ii ) fix the charges for the pathological tests and scanning/x -ray , after taking 
into consideration the infrastructural and service inputs used in carrying out the 
tests . 

6 . (1) No medical practitioner, private or corporate hospital shall charge from any Mandatory 
patient the fee exceeding the fee fixed by the Committee . 

display of 

consultancy 
(2 ) It shall be mandatory for every medical practitioner/private or corporate hospital and other fees . 
or diagnostic laboratory to display the fee as determined by the Committee in such manner 
as may be prescribed . 

7 . (1) Whoever contravenes the provisions of this Act shall be punished with Penalty. 
imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years and with fine which may 
extend up to rupees fifty lakh . 

(2 ) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a medical practioner/ 
hospital/laboratory, the licence of such medical practioner/hospital/laboratory shall be 
cancelled forthwith . 


8 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay, by notification in the Official Gazette , make rules Power to 
to carry out the purposes of this Act. 

make rules . 
(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made 
before each House of parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the casemay be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


While it is not practically feasible for the Government to provide medical treatment 
facilities to each and every citizen of the country, every day there are cases coming to light 
when private hospitals and private medical practitioners charge undue fees from patients for 
treatment costs and other allied services like pathological tests, etc . Even , the Insurance 
Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA ) has also voiced its concerns about higher charges 
levied by private /corporate hospitals, which is one of the major obstacles in expansion of 
health insurance sector in India and for development of medical tourism in our country. The 
regulation of fee in private medical sector would be a right step in the direction of providing 
affordable and equitable healthcare services to all citizens. 

It is, therefore, proposed to constitute a Special High Power Committee to fix the 
medical and pathological and other test charges levied by medical practitioner, private hospital, 
corporate hospitals and clinics. 

Hence, this Bill. 


DARSHANA VIKRAMJARDOSH 


NEW DELHI; 
March 30 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


233 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for constitution of a special High Power Committee to 
regulate the fees charged by medical practitioner, private or corporate hospitals and clinics . 
Clause 4 provides that the Central Government shall provide financial assistance to the 
Committee for its efficient functioning . The Bill ,therefore, if enacted ,would involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure of about 
rupees one hundred crores per annum would be involved from the Consolidated Fund of 
India . 


No non -recurring expenditure is likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


234 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 68 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the establishment of a permanent bench of the 

High Court of Gujarat at Surat. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title . 

1. This Act may be called the High Court of Gujarat ( Establishment of a Permanent 

Bench at Surat) Act , 2018 . 
Establishment 2 . There shall be established a permanent Bench of the High Court of Gujarat at Surat 
of a permanent and such Judges of the High Court of Gujarat, being not less than three in number, as the 
Bench of the 

Chief Justice of that High Court may from time to time nominate, shall sit at Surat in order to 
High Court of 
Gujarat at Surat. exercise the jurisdiction and power for the time being vested in that High Court in respect of 

cases arising in the districts of Bharuch , Tapi, Navsari, Surat, Dang and Valsad . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


235 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The High Court ofGujarat is located at Ahmedabad . Gujarat,being a vast State , people 
have to travel long distances with a lot of inconvenience in order to reach the High Court at 
Ahmedabad to pursue their cases. 

There has been a long pending demand from the people of the State especially those 
from Bharuch , Tapi, Navsari, Surat, Dang and Valsad districts that a Bench of the High Court 
be setup at Surat which is a commercially important city of the State of Gujarat. It would 
greatly help the tribal people living in above said districts to pursue their pending cases for 
speedy disposal . 

Hence , this Bill . 


DARSHANA VIKRAMJARDOSH 


NEW DELHI; 
February 21, 2018 


236 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


BILL No. 66 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Immoral Traffic (Prevention ) Act , 1956 . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. ( 1) This Actmay be called the Immoral Traffic ( Prevention ) Amendment Act, 2018 . 


Short title and 
commencement. 


( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


237 


104 of 1956 . 


2 . In the Immoral Traffic (Prevention ) Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Amendment 
Act), in section 2 , after clause (i), the following clause shall be inserted , namely, — 

of section 2 . 
" (ia ) trafficking in person means the recruitment, transportation , transfer, 
harbouring or obtaining of persons, by means of threat or use of force or other forms 
of coercion , abduction , kidnapping , fraud , deception , abuse of power or of a position 
of vulnerability or of giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent 
of a person having control over another person , for the purpose of exploitation . 

Explanation . ( 1) — The expression " exploitation " includes , exploitation for prostitution 
or other forms of sexual exploitation , forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to 
slavery , servitude or the removal of organs and the consent of a victim of trafficking in 
persons to the intended exploitation set forth in clause (ia ) shall be irrelevant where any of 
the means mentioned in clause (ia ) have been used . 

Explanation . (2 ) — The expression trafficking in persons includes recruitment, 
transportation , transfer , harbouring or obtaining of a child for the purpose of exploitation 
even if it does not involve any of the means as mentioned in clause (ia )". 

3. In the principal Act, after section 5 , the following section shall be inserted , Insertion of 
namely : 

new section 

5A . 
"5A . Any person who commits trafficking in person shall be punished with imprisonment Punishment 
for life .". 

for trafficking 
in person . 


238 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The menace of child trafficking in our country has been growing at an alarming pace . 
The common reasons for child trafficking range from economic deprivation ,lack of employment 
opportunities, low social status (more common for girls), low education level and general 
awareness , disadvantageous socio - cultural norms, gender and minority discrimination etc . 
The prevalence of child trafficking is high in poverty stricken areas of Andhra Pradesh , 
Bihar, Uttar Pradesh ,Madhya Pradesh , Rajasthan , Orissa and West Bengal. 

Traffickers force young girls into prostitution , and othermen , women , and children are 
held in debt bondage and face forced labour working in brick kilns, rice mills, factories, 
homes as domestic servants , or as beggars or in hazardous occupations etc . The traffickers 
of young girls are often those women who themselves have been trafficked and who use 
their personal relationships and trust in people in their villages to recruit additional girls. 

A large number of children are abducted every year ofwhich a sizeable number remain 
untraced according to a report by the National Human Rights Commission of India . The 
United Nations Children s Fund (UNICEF) has estimated that themajority of children trafficked 
are engaged in hazardous occupations. 

Although the Immoral Traffic (Prevention ) Act, 1956 is in place to address the issue of 
human trafficking. The Act only refers to trafficking for prostitution ,hence does not provide 
comprehensive protection for children . The Act also does not provide clear definition of 
" trafficking " . Thus, there is an imperative need to define, trafficking and to enhance the 
punishment for the heinous offence to protect children and others against trafficking. 


Hence, this Bill . 


DARSHANA VIKRAMJARDOSH 


NEW DELHI; 
February 15 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


239 


Bill No. 25 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India. 


Beit enacted by Parliamentin the Sixty -ninth Year ofthe Republic of India as follows: 


1. (1) This Actmay be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

Short title and 

Commencement. 
(2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2 . In article 324 of the Constitution , for clause (2), the following clauses shall be Amendment 
substituted , namely : 

of article 324 . 
" (2 ) The Election Commission shall consist of the Chief Election Commissioner 
and such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the Presidentmay, from 
time to time, fix . 


240 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(2A ) The appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election 
Commissioners shall be made by the President on the recommendation of the Selection 
Committee . 
(2B ) There shall be a Selection Committee consisting of 

(i) the PrimeMinister - Chairperson ; 
( ii) the Union Law Minister — Member; 
( iii ) the Leader of the Opposition in the House of the People — Member ; 
(iv ) the Leader of Opposition in the Council of States — Member; and 

(v ) the Chief Justice of India or a Judge of the Supreme Court nominated 
by him — Member. 

Explanation . — For the purposes of this clause , " the Leader of the 
Opposition in the House of the People " or " the Leader of the Opposition in the 
Council of States " shall, when no such leader has been so recognized ,mean the 
Leader of the single largest group in Opposition in the House of the People or 
the Council of States, as the case may be . 

(2C) The Selection Committee shall for the purposes of selecting the Chief 
Election Commissioner or Election Commissioners and for preparing a panel of persons 
to be considered for appointment as such , constitute a Search Committee consisting 
of at least five persons of standing and having special knowledge and expertise in the 
matters relating to public administration , vigilance , policy making , law and election 
management or in any other matter which , in the opinion of the Selection Committee, 
may be useful in making the selection of the Chief Election Commissioner and the 
Election Commissioners : 


Provided that not less than two members of the Search Committee shall be from 
amongst the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes or 
the other Backward Classes or Minorities or Women : 

Provided further that the Selection Committee may also consider any person 
other than the persons recommended by the Search Committee . 

( 2D ) The Selection Committee shall regulate its own procedure in a transparent 
manner for selecting the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners. 


(2E ) The term of the Search Committee referred to in sub - section (2C ), the fees 
and allowances payable to its members and the manner of selection of panel ofnames 
shall be such as may be prescribed by the Selection Committee .". 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


241 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The framework of the Constitution has established the office of the Chief Election 
Commissioner and the Election Commissioners who are entrusted with the responsibility to 
deal with matters that form the foundations of a democratic polity which is based on principles 
of transparency and accountability. In July 2017 , the Supreme Court had made an observation 
on the absence of any law on the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC ) and 
further observed that leaving it entirely to the political executive would not ensure 
independence of the poll panel. The absence of any properly crafted procedure and 
independent mechanism for appointment to such crucial post under the Constitution hampers 
its status and authority . There is an immediate necessity to change the selection procedure 
for the appointment of such constitutional authorities. It would add prestige to the post , if 
the people heading it are chosen through a procedure in which the President has the benefit 
of getting a recommendation from a committee that will reflect a bipartisan consensus. The 
appointment of the above mentioned constitutional functionaries are governed by the 
provisions of the Constitution . As there is no separate law nor any prescribed procedure in 
the scheme of things currently in force , these appointments are made by the President on the 
advice of the Council of Ministers Headed by the Prime Minister. On a carefulperusal of the 
debates in the Constituent Assembly , we come across the speech of Pandit Hriday Nath 
Kunzru and Prof. Shibban Lal Saxena, who spoke eloquently on the need to appoint a person 
as the Chief Election Commissioner or the Election Commissioner who commands confidence 
of a majority of both the Houses of Parliament. In principle , one could say that the person 
appointed should be such as to be acceptable and should have the confidence of the 
Parliament or across the political spectrum . 

In the last sixty years of the glorious history of this country, our polity has undergone 
a metamorphosis and from the days of single party dominance earlier,we are passing through 
an era of coalition Governments. It would be in the fitness of things to incorporate a transparent 
procedure in respect of the appointment of such constitutional authorities , where the 
credibility and independence of the authority is of paramount importance . In order to nurture 
and strengthen this confidence of the public , a change in the selection procedure for the 
appointment is necessary keeping in view the changed political scenario in the country with 
its multiparty focus. A broad -based Committee will greatly add to the perceived sense of 
impartiality , neutrality and credibility , thereby further strengthening the faith of the public in 
the institutional framework of such authorities . 

Hence , this Bill . 


RAJEEV SATAV 


NEW DELHI; 
November 30 , 2017 . 


242 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause (2 ) of the Bill provides for constitution of a Search Committee to shortlist 
prospective candidates for appointment as Chief Election Commissioner or Election 
Commissioners. It also provides for the fees and allowances payable to members of the 
Search Committee. The Bill , therefore, if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure of about rupees twenty -five lakh 
per annum will be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India. 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees ten lakh is also likely to be involved . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


243 


Bill No. 17 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic as 
follows: 


Short title. 


Amendment of 
article 148 . 


1 . This Act may be called the Constitution ( Amendment) Act, 2018 . 
2 . In article 148 of the Constitution , 

(a ) in clause (1 ), after the words “ appointed by the President” , the words “ on 
the recommendation of the Selection Committee as provided under clause ( 1A )” shall 
be inserted; and 


244 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(b ) after clause (1 ), the following clauses shall be inserted , namely : 
“ ( 1A ) The Selection Committee shall consist of - 
(a ) the PrimeMinister — Chairperson ; 
(b) the Union Minister of Finance — Member; 

(c ) the Leader of Opposition or Leader of the Single Largest Party in Opposition , 
as the case may be , in the House of the People — Member ; 

( d ) the Leader of Opposition or Leader of the Single Largest Party in Opposition , 
as the case may be , in the Council of States — Member; 


(e ) one eminent person , having experience of at least twenty years in the field of 
anti -corruption policy, public administration , vigilance, policy making, finance including 
insurance and banking , law and managementor in such other matter as the Chairperson 
and Members of the Selection Committee deem appropriate , to be nominated by the 
President — Member. 


( 1B ) The Selection Committee shall, for the purpose of selecting the Comptroller and 

Auditor -General of India and for preparing a panel of persons to be considered 
for appointment as such , constitute a Search Committee consisting of at least 
five persons of standing and having special knowledge and expertise in the 
matters relating to public administration , vigilance, policy making, law and 
management or in any other matter which , in the opinion of the Selection 
Committee,may be useful in making the selection of the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India: 


Provided that not less than two members of the Search Committee shall be from 
amongst the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the 
Other Backward Classes, the Minorities or women : 


Provided further that the Selection Committee may also consider any person 
other than the persons recommended by the Search Committee . 
(1C ) The Selection Committee shall regulate its own procedure in a transparentmanner 

for selecting the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India . 
(1D ) The term of the Search Committee referred to in clause (1B ), the salary and 

allowances payable to its members and the manner of selection of panel of 
names shall be such as may be prescribed by the Selection Committee.” . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


245 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The framework of the Constitution has established the office of Comptroller and 
Auditor -General (CAG ) who is entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring transparency 
and accountability in Government finances and policies . 

The genesis on the importance of CAG can be ascertained from the observation made 
by Dr. B . R . Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly on May 30 , 1949. Accordingly to 
Dr. Ambedkar, this officer was “ probably the most important officer in the Constitution of 
India ” because he is the one man who is going to see that the expenses voted by Parliament 
are not exceeded or varied . “ If this functionary is to carry out the duties — and his duties, 
I submit, are far more important than the duties even of the judiciary.............I personally feel 
that he ought to have far greater independence than the Judiciary itself ” . 

Without exception , every member of the Constituent Assembly who spoke on the 
articles relating to the CAG , including Shri T. T. Krishnamachari , Pandit Hirday Nath Kunzru , 
Shri K . T. Shah and Shri R .K . Sidhva — fully endorsed Dr. Ambedkar s sentiments. The primary 
objective of the assembly appeared to be to cloth the CAG with such powers that the 
executive would in no circumstances be able to weaken his independence and objectivity . As 
a result, the first amendmentmoved that day was to change the nomenclature of the Auditor 
General to Comptroller and Auditor-General, because as Shri T . T. Krishnamachari said , the 
function of the Auditor General is notmerely to audit but to have a control over the expenses 
of Government. The nomenclature , he said , should be in consonance with the duties that are 
entrusted to him by the Constitution . 

The absence of any proper crafted procedure and independent mechanism for 
appointment to such crucial post under the Constitution hampers its status and authority . 
A change in the selection procedure for the appointment of such Constitutional authorities 
are necessary . It would add prestige to the post, if the people heading it are chosen through 
a procedure in which the President has the benefit of getting a recommendation from a 
committee shall will reflect a bipartisan consensus. As there is no separate law nor any 
prescribed procedure , in the scheme of things currently in force , these appointments are 
made by the President on the advice of the Prime Minister . 


It would be in the fitness of things to incorporate a transparent procedure in respect of 
the appointment of such constitutional authorities, where the credibility and independence 
of the authority is of paramount importance . In order to nurture and strengthen the confidence 
of the public , a change in the selection procedure for the appointment is necessary keeping 
in view the changed political scenario in the country with its multiparty focus. A broad -based 
Committee will greatly add to the perceived sense of impartiality, neutrality and credibility 
thereby further strengthening the faith of the public in the institutional framework of such 
authorities. 

Hence, this Bill . 


RAJEEV SATAV 


NEW DELHI; 
December 7 , 2017 . 


246 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 2 of the Bill provides for setting up of a Search Committee to shortlist prospective 
candidates to the post of Comptroller and Auditor -General of India . The Bill, therefore , if 
enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is likely to involve 
a recurring expenditure of about rupees fifteen lakh per annum from the Consolidated Fund 
of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees ten lakh per annum is also likely to be 
involved . 


Sec . 2 ] 


Suc.2) 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


24 


247 


Bill No. 97 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the establishment of a National Commission for Welfare of Farmers 

to improve the conditions of farmers and for matters connected therewith . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called The National Commission for Welfare of Farmers Short title and 
Bill , 2018 . 

commencement. 


( 2) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, — 


Definitions . 


( a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 


248 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Establishment 
of a National 
Commission 
for Farmers 
Welfare and 
Development . 


(b ) " farmer" means an Indian citizen who undertakes cultivation in his own land 
or in any other land on sharing basis or on lease or performs any other livelihood work 
related to agriculture ; 

(c ) " National Commission " means the National Commission for Welfare of Farmers 
established under section 3 ; and 

(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3. ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall, by notification in the OfficialGazette , establish a 
Commission to be known as the National Commission for Welfare of Farmers to improve the 
conditions of farmers in the country. 
(2 ) The Commission shall consist of — 

(a) a Chairperson ; 
(b ) a Deputy Chairperson ; and 

( c) three members, 
to be appointed by the President by warrant under his signature and seal from amongst the 
persons having special knowledge in the field of agriculture. 

(3) The CentralGovernment may appoint such number of officers and staff including 
experts to the Commission as may be required for its efficient functioning . 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of service of 
the Chairperson , Deputy Chairperson ,members, officers, staff and experts of the Commission 
shall be such as may be prescribed . 

(5) The National Commission shall have the power to regulate its own procedure . 

4 . (1 ) It shall be the duty of the National Commission to take such steps, as itmay deem 
appropriate , for the welfare and development of farmers and their dependant family members . 

(2 ) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision , the National 
Commission shall ensure the following provisions for the benefit and welfare of farmers , 
namely : 

(a ) negotiating all cases related to the safeguards provided to farmers and carry 
out the monitoring and improvement of such safeguards ; 

(b ) investigate complaints of the farmers related to deprivation of their rights 
and safeguards; 

(c) participate in the planning process of socio -economic development of farmers ; 

(d ) advice the appropriate Government to enhance pace of development of farmers 
under its jurisdiction ; 

(e) submit reports to the President regarding the working of safeguards on an 
annual basis or at such intervals as it thinks fit including measures for protection , 
welfare and social development of farmers; and 

(f) undertake all other functions for the protection , welfare and development of 
farmers , as specified by the President. 

5 . ( 1) The President shall cause to be laid before each Houses of Parliament all the 
reports submitted to him under clause ( e ) of sub -section (2 ) of section 4 alongwith a 
memorandum explaining the reasons for not accepting any of the recommendations made 
thereto . 


Functions of 
the National 
Commission . 


President to 
lay report. 


( 2 ) Where the report , or any of its part is related to any of the issue connected with 
the State Government, a copy of such report shall be forwarded to the Governor of that State , 
who shall in turn , along with an explanatory memorandum concerned with the action taken or 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


249 


proposed to be taken on the recommendations related to the State, if any , and reasons for not 
accepting any of the recommendations , cause to be laid such report before the State 
legislature. 

6 . The National Commission shall, while investigating any matter referred to in Commission 
clause (b ) of sub -section (2 ) of section 4 , have all the powers of a Civil Court trying a suit to have 

powers of 
and, in particular in respect of the following matters, namely : 

Civil Court. 
(a ) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from any part of 
India and examining him on oath ; 

(b ) requiring the discovery and production of any document; 
(c ) receiving evidence on affidavits ; 
(d ) requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court or office; 
(e ) issuing commission for the examination of witnesses and documents ; and 


(f) any othermatter which may be prescribed . 
7 . The appropriate Government shall consult the National Commission on all policies Appropriate 
affecting interests of the farmers. 

Government 
to consult 
Commission . 


8 . The CentralGovernment shall , after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in Central 
this behalf, provide adequate funds to the National Commission for carrying out the purposes Government 
of this Act. 

to provide 
adequate 
funds to the 
National 

Commission . 
9. If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may make such order or give such direction , not inconsistent with the provisions remove 

difficulties. 
of this Act, asmay appear to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of two years 
from the date of commencement of this Act. 

10 . The provisions of this Act and rules made thereunder shall have effect Act to have 
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time overriding 

effect. 
being in force . 

11 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay , by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules Power to 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

make rules. 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon asmay be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


250 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


More than half of country s population is engaged in agriculture and its allied activities , 
but the financial condition of farmers is still in a pitiable state . There are many schemes and 
special provisions for the welfare of farmers in the country, inspite of which no significant 
change can be observed in their social-economic conditions. Neither their financial condition 
has improved as expected nor their complaints are resolved . In such a scenario , in order to 
end their exploitation and to ensure their holistic development, need for a better and 
empowered institutional mechanism has long been felt. There is an urgent need for 
establishment of a National Commission for Welfare of Farmers on the lines of the Scheduled 
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Commissions. 


Hence , this Bill. 


RAJEEV SATAV 


NEW DELHI; 
February 19 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


251 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for constitution of National Commission for Farmers 
Welfare and Development. It also provides for appointment of a Chairperson , Deputy 
Chairperson , members, officers, staff and experts to the Commission . Clause 8 provides for 
the Central Government to provide adequate funds for the functioning of the Commission . 
The Bill, therefore , if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of 
India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure of Rupees Twenty crore will be involved . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about Rupees five crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


252 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 96 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for establishment of a National Agricultural Produce Price Fixation 
Tribunal in pursuance of article 323B (2 ) ( g ) of the Constitution to uphold the 
livelihood rights of farmers , agriculturists and the general public , in 
matters relating to price fixation of agricultural produce 
considered as essential commodities and for 

matters connected therewith . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


CHAPTERI 


PRELIMINARY 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called as the National Agricultural Produce Price Fixation 
Tribunal Act, 2018 . 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


253 


Definitions. 


10 of 1955. 


(3 ) It shall come into force on such date , as the Central Governmentmay , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a ) " agriculture " with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions , 
includes floriculture , horticulture , sericulture, the raising of crops, grass or garden 
produce , dairy farming , poultry farming , stock breeding, cutting of wood or grass , 
gathering of fruit , raising of man -made forest or rearing of seedlings or plants ; 

(b ) " appointed day " in relation to National Tribunalmeans the date with effect 
from which it is established , by notification under section 3; 

(C) " Chairperson " means the Chairperson of the Principle Bench of the Tribunal; 

(d ) " Commission " means the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices 
(CACP ) constituted under the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare ; 

(e ) " crop " includes crop of wheat, rice , jawar, bajra , toor, ground nut, cotton , 
sugarcane or any other crop notified in the Official Gazette , from time to time; 

(1) " essential commodities " means the agricultural produce as notified under 
the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ; 

( g ) "Expert Member" means a member of the Tribunal who , is appointed as 
such , and holds qualifications specified in sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 , and , is not a 
JudicialMember; 

(h ) " fair price " means the fair and reasonable price of agricultural produce (food 
crops and food stuffs , edible oilseeds and other crops ) as recommended by the 
Commission to the Government of India and verified by the Tribunal and agreeable to 
both the parties involved in the transaction ; 
(i) " farmer" means any person who — 

(i) cultivates crops by cultivating the land himself; or 

( ii ) cultivates crops by directly supervising the cultivation of land through 
any other person ; or 

(iii ) conserves and preserves, severally or jointly, with any person or 
traditional varieties or adds value to such traditional varieties through selection 
and identification of their useful properties; 

(j) " goods" include such items which have been declared as essential goods in 
the OfficialGazette for the purpose of article 323 ( B ) ( g ) of the Constitution of India 
and control of the prices of such goods; 

(k ) " human rights" shall have the samemeaning as defined under clause ( d ) of 
section 2 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 ; 

(1) " Judicial Member" means a member of the Tribunal appointed as such under 
this Act, and includes the Chairperson or a Vice - Chairperson who possesses any of 
the qualifications specified under section 5 ; 

(m ) "minimum support price " means the minimum support price of agriculture 
produce as declared by the Union Government; 

(n ) " notification " means a notification published in the Official Gazette ; 
(0 ) " order" means an order notified in the OfficialGazette ; 
(p) " petition " means an application made under sections 14 , 15 and 16 ; 
(9) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 


10 of 1994 . 


254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(r) " victim " means any person who has suffered any loss or injury due to the 
act or omission for which the Governmentmachinery deciding the prize for agricultural 
produce is responsible and expression includes his guardian or legal heir and any 
such group of persons or family members facing financial loss and issues related to 
livelihood ; 


(s ) " substantial question related to agricultural produce price fixation " include 
issues relating to direct violation of farmers rights by denial of fair market price for 
their agricultural produce and the financial losses due to lower price prescribed to 
agricultural produce ; and 


(t) " Tribunal" means the National Agricultural Produce Price Fixation Tribunal 
established under section 3 . 


CHAPTER II 


ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TRIBUNAL 


Establishment 
of National 
Agricultural 
Produce Price 
Confirmation 
Tribunal. 


3. (1 ) The Central Government shall,by notification , establish , with effect from such 
date as may be specified therein , a Tribunal to be known as the National Agricultural 
Produce Price Fixation Tribunal to exercise the jurisdiction , powers and authority conferred 
on such Tribunal by or under this Act. 


(2) The Central Government may, on receipt of a request in this behalf from any State 
Government, establish by notification , a Regional Bench of the Tribunal for that State 
which shall be established as per States Zones to exercise the jurisdiction , powers and 
authority conferred on the Tribunal for the State under this Act. 


Composition 
of Tribunal 
and Benches 
thereof. 


4 . (1) The Tribunal shall consist of a Chairperson , such number of Vice - Chairperson 
as Judicial Member and a minimum of two Expert Members to be appointed by the Central 
Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(2) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, a Bench shall consist of one Judicial 
Member and one ExpertMember to be appointed by the CentralGovernment in such manner 
as may be prescribed . 


(3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section (1 ) the Chairperson 
may , — 


( a ) in addition to discharge the functions of the JudicialMember or the Member 
of the Regional Bench of the Tribunal to which he is appointed , discharge the 
functions of the Members of the Tribunal, the Member of any other Bench , as the 
case may be ; 


(b ) transfer the Vice - Chairperson or other Member from one Bench to another 
Bench ; 


( c ) authorize the Vice -Chairperson or the Judicial Member or the Member 
appointed to one Bench , to discharge additionally the functions of the Vice 
Chairperson or, as the case may be , the Judicial Member or the Member of another 
Bench as the case may be ; and 


(d ) for the purpose of securing that any case or cases which having regard to 
the nature of the question involved , requires , in his opinion or under the rules made 
by CentralGovernment in this behalf, to be decided by Bench composed ofmore than 
two Members, issue such general or special Orders, as he may deem fit ; 


(4 ) Subject to the provisions of this Act , the Benches of the Tribunal shall ordinarily 
sit at New Delhi which shall be known as Principal Bench and at other Zonal Benches as 
Central Government may, by notification , specify. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


255 


Qualifications 
for 
appointment 
and selection 


as 


5. (1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment and selection as Chairperson 
unless he — 

(a ) is , or has been a retired Judge of Supreme Court or retired Chief Justice of 
any High Court; and 

(b ) has at least two years held the office of Vice - Chairperson . 
(2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as the Vice- Chairperson unless 
he — 


Chairperson , 
Vice 
Chairperson, 
Judicial 
Member. 


( a ) is , or has been , or is qualified to be a Judge of High Court; and 

(b ) has for a period not less than three years, held office as Judicial Member. 
( 3 ) A person shall not be qualified for appointment and selection as Judicial Member 
unless he — 


( a ) is , or has been , or is qualified to be , a Judge of High Court; or 


(b ) is retired as Principle District Judge or is qualified to be appointed as Principal 
District Judge . 
(4 ) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as an ExpertMember unless he 

(a ) is havingminimum qualification ofpost graduation in agriculture , economics 
and relevant field , or 

(b ) has experience of at least five years work in the field of agriculture, economics 
or any other related fields like Agronomy, Animal Science and Dairy Science , 
Agricultural Botany , Soil Science and Agriculture Chemistry, Agricultural Economics, 
Agriculture Entomology, Agricultural Extension , Bio - Chemistry, Food Science and 
Technology, Horticulture , Inter Faculty IWM , Statistics , Plant Pathology and 
Agriculture Micro Biology , Bio Technology . 


(5 ) The Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson , JudicialMember and Expert Member of the 
Tribunal and its Benches shall be appointed by the President of India under his warrant and 
seal. 


(6 ) No appointment of a person possessing qualifications specified in this section as 
the Chairperson , a Vice -Chairperson or a Member shall be made without consultation with 
the Selection Committee headed by the Chief Justice of India and comprising of two sitting 
Judges of the Supreme Court or High Court, one representative of the Indian Council for 
Agricultural Research and one Vice- Chancellor of any Agricultural University to be 
nominated by the Central Government. 

6 . ( 1) In the event of occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by 
reason of his death , resignation or otherwise , such Central Vice -Chairperson as the 
Governmentmay , by notification , authorize in this behalf , shall act as the Chairperson until 
the date on which a new Chairperson , appointed in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act to fill such a vacancy enters upon his office . 

(2) When the Chairperson is unable to discharge his functions owing to absence , 
illness or any other cause , such Vice -Chairperson as the Central Government may , by 
notification , authorize in this behalf, shall discharge the functions of the Chairperson until 
the date on which the Chairperson resumes his duties . 

7. The Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson or other Member shall hold office as such for a 
term of three years from the date on which he enters upon his office, but shall be eligible for 
re - appointment for another term of three years . 

8 . ( 1) The Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson , Judicial Member and Expert Member by 
notice in writing under his hand addressed to the President, resign from his office : 


Vice 
Chairperson 
to act as 
Chairperson 
or to 
discharge his 
functions in 
certain 
circumstances. 


Term of 
Office . 


Resignation 
and Removal. 


256 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Provided that the Chairperson , Vice- Chairperson , JudicialMember and Expert Member 
shall , unless he is permitted by the President to relinquish his office sooner, continue to hold 
office until the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such a notice or until a 
person duly appointed in his place enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of 
office ,whichever is earliest. 

(2 ) The Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson , JudicialMember and Expert Member shall not 
be removed from their office except by an order made by the President on the ground of 
proved misbehaviour or incapacity after an inquiry made by a judge of the SupremeCourt in 
which such Chairperson, Vice - Chairperson, JudicialMember and ExpertMember had been 
informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in 
respect of those charges . 

9 . The salaries and allowances payable to , and the other terms and conditions of 
service (including pension , gratuity and other retirement benefits ) of the Chairperson , Vice 
Chairperson and Members shall be such as may be prescribed . 


servin 


Salaries and 
allowances 
and other 
terms and 
conditions of 
service of 
Chairperson , 
Vice 
Chairperson 
and other 
Members . 


Provision as 
to the holding 


10 . On ceasing to hold office the Chairperson of the Tribunal shall be ineligible for 
further employment either under theGovernment of India or under Government of a State for 
a period of three years. 


of office 


Chairperson 
on ceasing to 
be such 
Chairperson. 


adm 


strative 


Financial and 

11 . The Chairperson shall exercise such financial and administrative powers over the 
trative Benches as may be vested in him under the rules made by the Central Government: 
powers of the 
Chairperson . 

Provided that the Chairperson may delegate such of his financial and administrative 
powers as he may deem fit to the Vice - Chairperson or any officer of the Tribunal, subject to 
the condition that the Vice - Chairperson or such officer shall, while exercising such delegated 
powers, continue to act under the direction , control and supervision of the Chairperson . 


Staff of the 

e 
Tribunal. 


12 . ( 1) The Central Government shall appoint such number of the officers and other 
employees required to assist a Tribunal in the discharge of its functions as it may think fit. 


( 2 ) The officers and other employees of a Tribunal shall discharge their functions 
under the general superintendence of the Chairperson . 


( 3) The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service 
of the officers and employees of the Tribunal shall be such as may be prescribed . 


CHAPTER III 


JURISDICTION , POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF PROCEEDINGS OF TRIBUNAL 


13. (1 ) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the Tribunal shall exercise on 
and from the appointed date , all the jurisdiction , powers and authority exercisable immediately 
before that day by all courts (except the Supreme Court) in relation to — 


Jurisdiction , 
Powers and 
Proceedings 
of the 
National 
Agriculture 
Price 
Confirmation 
Tribunal. 


(a ) fixation of price of agricultural produce declared by the CentralGovernment 
in pursuance of the recommendationsmade by the Commission ; 


(b ) the confirmation of principles and methodologies used by the Commission 
for determination of minimum support price ; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


257 


Tribunal to 
settle 
disputes . 


(c ) the factors which are to be considered for determination of cost of agriculture 
produce include bank interest and wages of the labour; 

( d ) the factors which determine the quantum of subsidy to be given by the 
Central Government to reduce the cost of agriculture produce; 

(e) the factors relating to dearness allowance, profit, escalation of the prices in 
global market and all other factors incidental thereto ; 

(f) the factors safeguarding the interest of the agriculturists and consumer; and 

(g) the factors affecting the agricultural produce and its price including low 
standard and defective chemicals, pesticides, fertilizers resulting environmental impact 
on the agricultural produce . 

(2 ) The Tribunal shall have the powers to direct the Central Government to control the 
import and export of the agriculture produce , by considering the prices of the particular 
agricultural produce fixed or determined by the Tribunal. 

(3 ) The Tribunal shall have power to direct the Central Government to reimburse the 
agriculturist for the short fall between the price declared by the Tribunal. 

14 . (1) The Tribunal shall have the jurisdiction over all civil cases where substantial 
question related to agricultural produce price fixation is involved . (including enforcement of 
any legal right of farmer related to livelihood and fixation of price of agricultural produce ) or 
for instance where there is direct violation of farmers in getting good market price for their 
agriculturalproduce and the lower price prescribed to agricultural produce affect the farmer 
communities and the gravity of such damage to margin of profit is broadly measurable and 
which can be shown comparatively in reference to previous years price fixation as well as by 
producing actual information related to sell of such agricultural produce in price higher than 
prescribed by the Commission or the concern Government Authority . 

(2 ) The Tribunal shall hear the disputes arising from questions referred to in 
sub - section (1 ) above and settle some dispute arising and pass order thereon . 

( 3) No application for adjudication of dispute under this section shall be entertained 
by the Tribunal unless it is made within a period of six months from the date on which the 
cause of action for such dispute first arose : 

Provided that the Tribunal may , if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by 
sufficient cause from filing the application within the said period , allow it to be filed within a 
further period not exceeding sixty days. 
15. (1 ) The Tribunalmay, by an order, provide, - 

(a ) relief and compensation to the victims of irrational, arbitrary, unfair fixation of 
price for agricultural produce and other damages arising as mention in section 13; 

(b ) for restitution of agricultural land damaged , 
(2 ) The relief and compensation and restitution of farm land , agricultural produce and 
other economical damage referred to in clauses (a ) and (b ) of sub - section (1) shall be in 
addition to the relief paid to farmer. 

(3) No application for grant of any compensation or relief or restitution of agricultural 
property or loss to livelihood under this section shall be entertained by the Tribunal unless 
it is made within a period of five years from the date on which the cause for such compensation 
or relief first arose : 

Provided that the Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by 
sufficient cause from filing the application within the said period , allow it to be filed within a 
further period not exceeding sixty days. 


Relief, 
compensation 
and 
restitution . 


258 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Liability to 
pay relief or 
compensation 
in certain 
cases. 


(4 ) The Tribunalmay, having regard to the damage to public health , agricultural property , 
divide the compensation or relief payable under separate heads so as to provide compensation 
or relief to the claimant victims, as itmay deem fit. 

(5 ) Every claimant of the compensation or relief under this Act shall intimate to the 
Tribunal about the application filed to , or, as the case may be, compensation or relief received 
from , any other court or authority. 

16 . Where loss to agricultural produce of any farmer, or damage to crops or damage to 
any agricultural property has resulted from an irrational, arbitrary and unfair process of 
fixation of price for agricultural produce , the Government or its concerned authorities shall 
be responsible to pay such relief or compensation for any such damage to crops or damage 
to any agricultural property. 

17 . (1) Each petition under sections 14 , 15 and 16 shall be made to the Tribunal in such 
form , contain such particulars, and , be accompanied by such documents and such fees as 
may be prescribed by Central Government after consultation with the Chairperson of the 
Tribunal. 


Petition to 
Tribunal. 


(2 ) Without prejudice to the provisions mentioned in this law , a petition for grant of 
relief or compensation or settlement of dispute may be made to the Tribunal by — 

(a ) farmer, who has sustained economic damage to agricultural produce and 
livelihood; 

(b ) any farmer or registered organisation of an agriculturist at State or National 
level or the legal representatives of farmer, as the case may be, may file petition to the 
National Agricultural Produce Price Confirmation Tribunal for cost verification of 
minimum support price declared by the Central Government. 

( 3) The petition filed before the Tribunal under this Act shall be dealt as expeditiously 
as possible and endeavour shall be made by it to dispose of the petition , or, as the casemay 
be , finally within six months from the date of filing of the petition , or as the case may be , after 
providing the parties concerned an opportunity to be heard . 

18 . ( 1) The Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of 
Civil Procedure , 1908 but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice . 

(2 ) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Tribunal shall have power to regulate its 
own procedure . 


Procedure and 
powers of 
Tribunal. 


5 of 1908 . 


(3 ) The Tribunal shall also not be bound by the rules of evidence contained in the 
Indian Evidence Act, 1872 . 


1 of 1872 . 


5 of 1908 . 


( 4 ) The Tribunal shall have, for the purposes of discharging its functions under this 
Act, the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 , 
while trying a suit, in respect of the following matters, namely: 

( a ) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him 
on oath ; 

(b ) requiring the discovery and production of documents; 
(c ) receiving evidence on affidavits ; 

(d ) subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence 
Act, 1872 , requisitioning any public record or document or copy of such record or 
document from any office; 

(e ) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents; 
(1) reviewing its decision ; 
(g ) dismissing a petition for default or deciding it ex parte ; 


1 of 1872. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


259 


45 of 1860. 
2 of 1974 . 


rtain 


(h ) setting aside any order of dismissal of any petition for default or any order 
passed by it ex parte; 

(i) pass an interim order (including granting an injunction or stay) after providing 
the parties concerned an opportunity to be heard, on any petition filed under this Act; 

(j) pass an order requiring any person to cease and desist from committing or 
causing any violation to any farmer; 

(k ) any othermatter which may be prescribed . 
(5) All proceedings before the Tribunal shall be deemed to be the judicial proceedings 
within themeaning of sections 193 , 219 and 228 for the purposes of section 196 of the Indian 
Penal Code, 1860 and the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of 
section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 . 

19 . The Tribunal shall , while passing any order or decision or award , apply the principles Tribunal to 
of sustainable development, the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle . ap 

principles. 
20 . The decision of Tribunal shall be taken by majority of Members and shall be Decision to be 
binding : 

taken by 

majority . 
Provided that if there is a difference of opinion amongst the Members hearing any 
petition and the opinion is equally divided , the Chairperson shall hear ( if he has not heard 
earlier ) such petition and decide : 

Provided further that where the Chairperson himself has heard such petition or 
appeal along with other Members of the Tribunal, and if there is a difference of opinion 
among the Members in such cases and the opinion is equally divided , he shall refer the 
matter to other Members of the Tribunal who shall hear such petition and decide . 

21. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Tribunal,may, file an appeal Appeal. 
to the Supreme Court, within ninety days from the date of communication of the award , 
decision or order of the Tribunal, to him , on any one or more of the grounds specified in 
section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 : 


5 of 1908 . 


Provided that the Supreme Courtmay entertain any appeal after the expiry of ninety 
days , if it is satisfied thatthe appellantwas prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the 
appeal. 


22 . (1 ) While disposing of a petition under this Act , the Tribunal shall have power to 
make such order as to costs, as it may consider necessary. 


Imposition of 
cost . 


( 2) Where the Tribunal holds that a claim is not maintainable , or is false or vexatious , 
and such claim is disallowed , in whole or in part , the Tribunal may, if it so thinks fit , after 
recording its reasons for holding such claim to be false or vexatious, make an order to award 
costs, including lost benefits due to any interim injunction . 


23. A person making an application to a Tribunal under this Actmay either appear in Right of 
person or take the assistance of a legal practitioner of his choice to present his case before petitioner to 
the Tribunal. 

take assistance 
of legal 
practitioner. 


24 . Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules, the order of a Tribunal finally 
disposing of petition shall be agitated in execution before the Tribunal . 

CHAPTER IV 
MISCELLANEOUS 


Execution of 
orders of a 
Tribunal. 


25 .No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect Bar on 
of any matter which may be adjudicated by Agriculture Price Tribunal under this Act and no Jurisdiction of 

Civil Court. 


260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Members and 
staff of 
Tribunal to be 
public 
servants . 


order shall be granted by any Court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be 
taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under this Act. 

26 . The Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson ,the Judicial and Expert Members, officers and 
other employees of the Tribunal shall be deemed to be public servants within themeaning of 
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 . 


15 of 1860 . 


Protection of 
action taken 
in good faith . 


27 . No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central or 
State Government or against the Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson or other person authorized 
by such Chairperson, Vice -Chairperson or other Member for anything which is in good 
faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Actor any rule or order made there 
under. 


Application 
of other laws 
not barred . 


10 of 1949 . 
11 of 1948 . 
10 of 1955 . 


28 . The provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder shall be in addition to , and not 
in derogation of the Banking Regulation Act , 1949, the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, the 

1 
Essential Commodities Act, 1955 , the Agricultural Procedure Marketing (Development and 
Regulation ) Act of the State Government concerned . 

29. The provisions of this Act, shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by 
virtue of any law other than this Act. 


Act to have 
overriding 
effect . 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


30 . (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government may , by order published in the official Gazette , make such provisions not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to be necessary for removing the 
difficulty : 


Provided that no order shall bemade under this section after the expiry of a period of 
two years from the commencement of this Act. 


( 2) Every ordermade under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament. 

31. (1) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the provisions of this Act. 


Power to 
make rules . 


(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such 
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters ,namely : 

(a ) the transfer of cases by the Chairperson from one place of sitting (including 
the ordinary place of sitting) to other place of sitting ; 


(b ) the salaries and allowances payable to , and other terms and conditions of 
service (including pension , gratuity and other retirement benefits ) of the Chairperson , 
Judicial Member and Expert Member of the Tribunal under section 9; 


(c ) the recruitment of officers and other employees of the Tribunal under 
sub -section (2) of section 12 ; and the salaries and allowances and other conditions of 
service of the officers and other employees of the Tribunal under sub -section (3 ) of 
that section ; 


(d ) the financial and administrative powers to be exercised by the Chairperson of 
the Tribunal under section 11 ; 


(e ) the format for petition to be filed before the Tribunal under sections 14 , 15 
and fees. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


261 


(3) Every rule made under this Act by the Central Government shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total 
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive 
sessions, and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 
both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only 
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 


262 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The National Farmers Commission under the Chairmanship of Prof. M .S . Swaminathan 
in its report had pointed out that " Success in agricultural progress should be measured by 
the growth of farmers incomes and not just by production figures". As echoed by the 
Commission , for sustainability of agriculture , farmers income and livelihood must be the 
focal point of policy framing in agriculture. The Minimum Support Price (MSP) of the crops 
does not cover the cost of production of the agriculture produce to the full extent and , 
therefore , it does not do full justice to the farmers. Even though the prices declared by the 
CACP are not remunerative , they are not up to the cost of cultivation . 

The need is to establish a Tribunal under constitutional provision of article 323B (2 ) 
(g) for adjudicating disputes relating to agricultural produce . Our country is an agrarian 
economy and a sizeable population is involved in the agriculture sector. There has been an 
alarming increase in farmer suicides due to factors such as debt, loss of productivity and 
denial of actual cost. The creation of such a Tribunal will be a right step in providing an 
autonomous body which shall adjudicate disputes and address the issues faced by the 
farmers on issues relating to appropriate price for their produce . 

The Tribunal also required to be mandated to uphold the fundamental right of livelihood 
for farmers , who form the backbone of the country. The absence of any dedicated and 
impartial Tribunal to ascertain fair price and provide relief in the form of compensation or 
restitution to farmers on accountof denial of the mandated cost , resulted in causing financial 
losses to the farmers. The need is further to study and scrutinize the factors that which 
would safeguard farmers interest . 


The Bill, therefore , seeks to provide for establishment of a National Agricultural Produce 
Price Fixation Tribunal in pursuance of article 323B ( 2 ) ( g ) of the Constitution to which 
uphold the livelihood rights of farmers , agriculturist and the general public, in matters relating 
to price fixation of agricultural produce considered as essential commodities and formatters 
connected therewith . 


Hence , this Bill . 


RAJEEV SATAV 


NEW DELHI; 
February 22 , 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


263 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the establishment of the National Agricultural Produce 
Price Fixation Tribunal. Clause 9 provides for the salary and allowances of the Chairperson 
andMembers of the Tribunal. Clause 12 provides for appointment of officers and staff of the 
Tribunal. The Bill, therefore , if enacted ,would involve expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India. It is estimated that a recurring expenditure of rupees forty crore per annum 
would be involved . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees ten crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 31 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make , by notification in the 
Official Gazette , rules for carrying out the provisions of the proposed legislation . Sub -clause 
(2 ) enumerates the matters in respect of which such rules may be made . These matters, 
inter alia , includematters relating to — 

(a ) the transfer of cases by the Chairperson from one place of sitting ( including 
the ordinary place of sitting ) to other place of sitting ; 

(b ) the salaries and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of 
service (including pension, gratuity and other retirementbenefits) of, the Chairperson , 
Judicial Member and Expert Member of the Tribunal under section 9 ; 

(c ) the recruitment of officers and other employees of the Tribunal under 
sub -section (2 ) of section 12 ; and the salaries and allowances and other conditions of 
service of the officers and other employees of the Tribunal under sub - section ( 3) of 
that section ; 

(d ) the financial and administrative powers to be exercised by the Chairperson of 
the Tribunal under section 11 ; 


(e ) the format for petition to be filed before the tribunalunder sections 14 , 15 and 
fees. 

As the matters in respect of which rules may be made are matter of procedure and 
administrative detail and it is not practicable to provide for them in the Bill itself, the delegation 
of legislative powers , therefore , is of a normal character. 


264 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


BILL No. 200 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the constitution of Central Council of the Physiotherapy, 
the co - ordinated development in the education of phsiotherapy with a view 
to regulating and maintaining standards of such education , maintenance 
of Register of Physiotherapists and for matters connected therewith 

or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


CHAPTER I 


PRELIMINARY 


Short title and 
commencement. 


1. (1 ) This Act may be called the Physiotherapy Central Council Act, 2017 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by 
notification , appoint; and different dates may be appointed for constitution of different 
Central Councils and for different provisions of this Act. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


265 


2 . (1 ) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

Definitions. 
(a ) " Central Council" means the Central Council of Physiotherapy , 
constituted under section 3; 

(b ) " education " means programmes of education , research or training or 
such other programmes or areas as the Central Governmentmay, in consultation 
with the Central Council , by notification , declare in the discipline of physiotherapy ; 

( c ) " Fund " means the physiotherapy Central Council fund constituted under 
section 30 ; 

( d ) " institution" means any institution , by whatever name called , established 
by law for imparting education under this Act ; 

(e ) "member" means a member of the Central Council and includes its 
Chairperson and the Vice -Chairperson ; 

(f) " notification " means a notification published in the OfficialGazette ; 

( g ) " physiotherapist" means a person whose name has been entered in the 
register of the Central Council; 

(h ) " physiotheraphy " means medically directed therapy through physical 
agents including heat, cold , light, water,massage, electricity or manual exercise 
to persons with the aim of preventing or correcting any disability includes 
occupational therapy ; 

(i) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

(j) " register" means the register maintained under sub - section ( 1) of 
section 23 ; 

(k ) " regulations " means regulations made under this Act ; 

(1) " University " means a University defined under clause (f) of section 2 of 
the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 and includes an institution declared 
to be a deemed University under section 3 of the said Act. 

(2 ) Any reference in this Act of a law which is not in force in the State of Jammu 
and Kashmir shall, in relation to that State , be construed as a reference to the 
corresponding law , if any, in force in that State . 

CHAPTER II 

THE CENTRAL COUNCIL AND ITS COMMITTEES 
3. ( 1 ) The Central Government shall, by notification , constitute a Central Council Constitution 
to be known as the Central Council of Physiotherapy, for carrying out the purposes of of Central 

Council of 
this Act. 

Physiotherapy. 
(2 ) The Central Council shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid , having 
perpetual succession and a common seal , with power to acquire, hold and dispose of 
property, both movable and immovable , and to contract, and shall by the said names 
sue and be sued . 

( 3 ) The head office of the Central Council shall be at such place as may be 
determined , by notification , by the Central Government and the Central Council may , 
with the previous approval of the Central Government, establish regional offices at 
other places in India . 
(4 ) The Central Council shall consist of, — 

(a ) a Chairperson , to be appointed by the Central Government from amongst 
the members of the Central Council; 

(b ) a Vice -Chairperson , to be appointed by the Central Government from 
amongst the members of the Central Council ; 


266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(c ) one officer not below the rank of an Assistant Director General of the 
Directorate General of Health Services in the Union Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare dealing with the physiotherapy ; 

(d ) one officer of the Ministry or the Department of the Central Government 
having administrative control of health not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India , dealing with the physiotherapy ; 

(e ) one member to below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the Government 
of India to be appointed by the CentralGovernmentto represent the Union Ministry 
of Finance ; 


(f) onemember not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the Government 
of India to be appointed by the CentralGovernment to represent the Union Ministry 
of Science and Technology ; 


( g ) one member not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the Government 
of India to be appointed by the Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services 
to represent the Ministry of Defence ; 

(h ) twomembers not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the Government 
of India to be appointed by the Central Government to represent, — 

(i) the Central Board of Secondary Education ; and 

(ii) the University Grants Commission . 
(i) four members to be appointed by the Central Government from amongst 
the teachers of the recognized institutions imparting education in physiotherapy ; 

(j) not less than three members to be appointed by the Central Government 
by rotation in the alphabetical order to represent the States and one member to 
represent the Union territories : 


Term of 
office and 
casual 
vacancy . 


Provided that an appointment under this clause shall be made on the 
recommendation of the Government of the State, or as the case may be , the 
Union territory concerned ; and 

(k ) four members to be appointed by the Central Government from the 
organizations representing the interest of physiotherapy . 

4 . (1 ) The Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson and other member of the Central Council 
shall hold office for a term of five years from the date of his appointment. 

(2 ) The Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson and other member shall be deemed to have 
vacated his office , if , in the opinion of the Central Council , he is absent without sufficient 
excuse, from three consecutive ordinary meetings of the Central Council, or he ceases 
to be a member under section 5 . 

( 3 ) A casual vacancy in the Central Council shall be filled by fresh appointment 
and the person so appointed to fill the vacancy shall hold office only for the remainder 
of the term of the Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson and other member in whose place he 
has been appointed . 

(4 ) The Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson and other member of the Central Council 
shall be eligible for reappointment. 

5. The Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson and other member appointed by the Central 
Government under clauses ( c ) to (i) of sub - section (4 ) of section 3 shall cease to be a 
member of the Central Council on his cessation to the service by virtue of which he was 
appointed as a member of the Central Council . 


Cessation of 
membership 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


267 


on 


6 . The Chairperson , Vice- Chairperson and other members appointed by the Central Resigna 

member. 
Government under clauses ( a ), (b ) and (h ) to (k ) of sub -section (4 ) of section 3 may at 
anytime resign his membership by writing under his hand addressed to the Central 
Government: 

Provided that a members who has submitted his registration under this section 
shall continue to hold office of the Central Council until his resignation has been 
accepted by the CentralGovernment. 

7 . (1) The Central Council may, without prejudice to the provisions of sub -section (2), Removal and 
by a majority of its totalmembership and a majority ofnot less than two-thirds of its members 

vacation of 

membership 
present and voting , at any timerecommend removal of amember to the CentralGovernment, 
if it is satisfied that for any reason the continuance of that member in that Council is not in the 
public interest or is prejudicial to the interest of said Council and the decision of the Central 
Government in this regard shall be final. 

(2 ) The Central Government shall remove the Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson and other 
members of the Central Council, if he 

(a ) has been convicted for an offence involvingmoral turpitude; or 
(b ) is declared an undischarged insolvent by the competent court ; or 
(c ) becomes of unsound mind and is declared so by the competent court ; or 
(d ) refuses to act or becomes incapable of acting as a member ; or 
(e ) has absented without intimation for three consecutive meetings of the Council ; or 

(H) has abused the position of the Chairperson ,the Vice -Chairperson or a member, 
as the case may be, as to render his or her continuance in the office detrimental to the 
public interest: Provided that no person shall be removed under clauses (a ), ( d ), ( e) 
and (f) unless she has been given an opportunity of being heard . 

8 . ( 1) The Central Council shall meet at such time and place , and shall observe such Meetings of 
rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of business at its meetings, including the Central 

Council . 
quorum at such meetings , as may be determined by regulations: Provided that the Central 
Council shall meet at least once every year. 

(2 ) The Chairperson and in his absence the Vice - Chairperson shall preside at the 
meetings of the Central Council . 

( 3) If for any reason the Chairperson and the Vice - Chairperson both are unable to 
attend any meeting of the Central Council, any othermember chosen by themembers present 
at the meeting shall preside over the sittings of that meeting . 

(4 ) All questions which come up before any meeting of the Central Council shall be 
decided by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting, and in the event of an 
equality of votes, the person presiding shall have and exercise a second or casting vote . 
9 . No act or proceeding of the Central Council shall be invalidated merely by of Vacancy , etc . , 

not to 
(a ) any vacancy in , or any defect in the constitution of, said Council ; or 

invalidate 
(b ) any defect in the appointment of a person acting as a member of said Council; or pro 

of Central 
(c) any irregularity in the procedure of that Central Council not affecting the Council. 
merits of the case. 


10 . ( 1 ) The Central Council may associate with itself , in such manner and for such Power to 
purposes as may be determined by regulations , any person whose assistance or advice it associate 
may require in carrying out any of the provisions of this Act. 

persons with 

Central 
(2 ) A person associated with the Central Council under sub - section ( 1) for any purpose 

Council for 
shall have a right to take part in the discussion relevant to that purpose, but shall have no 

particular 

purposes . 
right to vote at a meeting of said Council, and shall not be a member for any other purpose . 


268 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Committees 
of Central 
Council. 


11 . ( 1) The Central Council shall, as soon as may be , constitute from among its mem 
bers an Executive Committee, Disciplinary Committee, or any other Committee as may be 
determined by regulations , for such general or specific purposes as it consider necessary, for 
carrying out its functions under this Act. 

( 2 ) The composition , tenure and fucntions of a Committee shall be such as may be 
determined by regulations . 

(3 ) Every Committee constituted under this section shall chose its own Chairperson : 


Provided that 


Functions of 
Central 
Council . 


(a) where the Chairperson is a member of such Committee, he shall be the 
Chairperson of such Committee , and in his absence , the Vice -Chairperson , if he is a 
member of such Committee, shall be its Chairperson ; and in the absence of both , any 
member chosen by the members of that Committee shall be its Chairperson; 

(b ) where the Chairperson is not a member of such Committee but the 
Vice - Chairperson is a member, he shall be its Chairperson , and in his absence any 
member chosen by the members of the Committee shall be its Chairperson . 

12 . (1) It shall be the duty of the Central Council to take such steps as it may think fit 
for ensuring coordinated and integrated development of education and maintenance of its 
standards . 

(2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the 
functions of the Central Council shall include 

(a ) entry , removal or re -entry of names in the register ; 

(b )maintenance of a register of persons qualified to practice in the physiotherapy 
discipline; 

(c ) determination of standardards of education, training , research , professional 
conduct or ethics of physiotherapists . 

(d ) to receive gifts , grants , donations orbenefactions from the CentralGovernment 
or a State Government and to receive bequests, donations and transfer ofmovable or 
immovable properties from testators, donors or transferors , as the case maybe ; 


Appointment 
of Secretary, 
officers and 
other 
employees of 
Central 
Council . 


(e ) exercise of disciplinary powers conferred by this Act; and 

(f) to do all such things as may be necessary, incidental or conducive to the 
attainment of all or any of the objects of the Council. 

13 . (1) For the purpose of discharging its functions efficiently undue this Act, The 
Central Council shall , subject to such regulations as may be made in this behalf , appoint a 
Secretary , officers and other employees, as it may consider necessary : 

Provided that the first Secretary of the Central Council shall be appointed by the 
Central Government on such terms and conditions as thatGovernment may deem fit 
and the Secretary shall hold office for a period of three years . 


(2 ) The Secretary, officers , or other employees appointed by the Central Council shall 
be subject to such conditions of services and entitled to such remunerations as may be 
determined by regulations. 


14 . The Secretary appointed under sub - section ( 1) of section 13 shall be the Chief 
Executive Officer of the Central Council. 


Secretary to 
act as Chief 
Executive 
Officer at 
Central 
Council . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


269 


Authentication 


of orders and 


15 . All orders and decisions of the Central Council shall be authenticated by the 
signature of the Chairperson , or any other member authorised by the Council in this behalf, 
and all other instruments issued by the Council shall be authenticated by the signature of the 
Chief Executive Officer or any other officer of the Council authorised by the Council in this 
behalf. 


other 
instruments 
of Central 
Council. 


16 . On and from the date specified in the notification , as may be issued by Central 
Government, no University or institution shall impart education for the purposes of this Act 
without seeking prior approval of the said Government. 


Approval of 
Central 
Government 
for imparting 
education . 
Recognition 
of education . 


Dm 


17. (1) The Central Government, after consulting the Central Council , may, by 
notification , from time to time, declare the education granted by any University or institution 
to be the recognized qualifications for the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) The University or institution whose education has not been notified by the Central 
Governmentunder sub -section ( 1),may apply to the said Government for reviewing its decision : 

Provided that the Central Governmentmay reject the application made under 
sub - section ( 2 ) for reasons to be recorded in writing . 

( 3) The CentralGovernment, after consulting the Central Council,may, by notification , 
relax education for persons who are practising as physiotherapist , on or before the date 
specified under section 16 . 

18 . The CentralGovernment, after consulting the Central Council ,may , by notification 
make a scheme of reciprocity for the purpose of recognition of foreign qualifications in the 
relevant discipline for the purposes of this Act. 


Scheme of 
reciprocity for 
recognition of 
foreign 
qualifications. 


19. The Central Council may , determine by regulations, the minimum standards of Minimum 
education required for granting recognized qualifications by the Universities or institutions. standards of 

education . 
20. Any University or institution imparting education shall furnish information to the Furnishing of 
central Council regarding course of study, duration of course , scheme of examination and information 

by University 
other eligibility conditions as the Central Councilmay, from time to time require . 

or institution 
to Central 
Council 
regarding 

education. 
21 . ( 1) The Central Council may appoint such number of inspectors as it may deem fit Appointment 
deal with recognition of its education in any University or institution . 

of Inspectors. 
(2 ) An inspector may 

(a) inspect any University or institution which imparts education ; 
(b ) attend at any approved examination ; and 

(c ) inspect any University or institution which has applied for the recognition of 
its course of study or examination under this Act, and attend at any examination of 
such University or institution . 

(3 ) An inspector while performing his functions under sub -section ( 2) shall not interfere 
with the conduct of the examination but he shall report to the CentralCouncil on the adequacy 
of standards of education including staff, equipment, accommodation , training and other 
facilities for giving such education or the sufficiency of every examination which heat tends 
and on any of the matters in regard to which the said Councilmay require him to report. 

(4) The Central Council shall for ward a copy ofevery such report to the University or 
institution , as the case may be, and shall also forward a copy together with any comments 
there on which the said University or institution may have made , to the Central 
Government. 


270 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Withdrawal of 
recognition . 


22. .Where the Central Council reports to the Central Government that an approved 
course of study or an approved examination does not continue to be in conformity with the 
regulations, the CentralGovernment shall give notice to the concerned University or institution 
of its intention to take into consideration the question of withdrawing of recognition accorded 
to the course of study or examination , as the case may be, and the said University or 
instituion, as the case may be , shall within three months from the receipt of such notice 
forward to the CentralGovernment such representation in the matter as it may deem proper . 


CHAPTER III 


THE REGISTER 


Register of 
physiotherapist. 


23 . ( 1) The Central Council shall maintain a register and enter names in it of 
physiotherapists , in the manner determined by regulations. 


(2 ) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, any person possessing education as 
notified by the Central Government under section 17 or section 18 , shall be eligible to have 
his name entered in the register of the Central Council and to obtain certificate of practice 
from it. 

(3 ) No person shall been titled to practice under this Act unless his name sintered in 
the register of Central Council : 


Entry of name 
in register. 


Provided that the name of any person possessing the education as notified 
under section 17 by the CentralGovernment shall be deemed to have been entered in 
the register from the date of such notification if he has made an application for entering 
his namein the register within six months from the coming into force of such notification 
or till his application is disposed of by the Council . 

24 . (1) the CentralCouncilmay, on receipt of an application made by any person in the 
manner and on payment of such fee, not exceeding one thousand rupees, asmay be determined 
by regulations, enter his name in the register if the said Council is satisfied that such person 
possesses the require qualification . 

(2 ) Any person whose name has been entered in the register shall be entitled to be 
called the physiotherapist . 

(3) The Central Council may refuse to enter the name of any person in the register for 
reasons to be recorded in writing and in the manner determined by regulations . 

25 . ( 1) The Central Council shall determine by regulations the standards of professional 
conduct and etiquette and a code of ethics for the practitioners under this Act. 

(2 ) The regulations made by the Central Council under sub -section ( 1) may specify as 
to which violations thereof shall constitute professional misconduct, and such provisions 
shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in 
force . 


Professional 
conduct and 
removal of 
names from 
register. 


(3) The Central Council may by order remove the name of a person from the register , 
maintained under sub - section (1) of section 23, where it is satisfied , after giving that person 
a reasonable opportunity of being heard , and after such further inquiry, if any, as itmay deem 
fit make, - 

(i) that his name has been entered in the register by error or on account of 
misrepresentation or suppression of a material fact ; 

( ii) that he has been convicted of any offence or has been guilty of misconduct 
in any professional respect , or has violated the standards of professional conduct and 
etiquette or the code of ethics determined under sub -section (1 ) which , in the opinion 
of the said Council , renders him unfit to be kept in the register. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


271 


Procedure in 
inquiries 
relating to 
misconduct. 


(4 ) An order under sub -section (3 )may specify that any person whose name is ordered 
to be removed from the register shall be in eligible for registration under this Act either 
permanently or for such period , as may be specified . 

26 . (1) Where on receipt of information by, or on a complaint made to it, the Central 
Council is prima facie of opinion that any physiotherapist has been guilty of any professional 
or other misconduct, the said Council shall refer the case to the Disciplinary Committee 
constituted under section 11 , and the Dsiciplinary Committee shall thereupon hold such 
inquiry and in such manner as may be determined by regulations and shall report the result 
of its inquiry to the said Council. 

(2) If on receipt of such report , the Central Council finds that a physiotherapist is not 
guilty of any professional or othermisconduct, it shall record its finding accordingly and direct 
that the proceedings shall be filed , or the complaint shall be dismissed , as the case may be . 

( 3) If on receipt of such report the Central Council finds that a physiotherapist , is 
guilty of any misconduct in any professional respect or has violated the standards of 
professional conduct and etiquette or the code of ethics prescribed under this Act, it shall 
proceed against such person in accordance with the provisions of sub -section (3 ) and (4 ) of 
section 25 . 

Explanation . For the purposes of this section , " physiotherapist" includes the 
person who was a physiotherpist on the date of the alleged misconduct, although he 
has ceased to be so at the time of inquiry . 

(4 ) For the purposes of any inquiry under this section , the Central Council and its 
Disciplinary Committee shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the 
Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 in respect of the followingmatters , namely: 

(a ) Summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him 
on oath ; 

(b ) the discovery and production of any document; and 

(c) receiving evidence on affidavits . 
27 . The Central Council may re -enter the name of a person whose name has notbeen 
removed permanently from the register under sub -section (4 ) of section 25 , by an order, in 
such manner and on payment of such fee, not exceeding one thousand rupees , and after 
satisfying such conditions and requirement as may be determined by regulations . 
28 . (1) Where a Central Council under this Act, has, 

(a ) refused to enter the name of any person in the register ; or 

(b ) ordered to remove the name of any person from the register, such person may 
appeal to the Central Government within thirty days from the date of receipt of the 
order of the said Councilby him in the manner as may be prescribed : Provided that the 
Central Governmentmay entertain such appeal after the expiry of said period of thirty 
days if it is satisfied that for sufficient reasons such person coult not file the appeal. 

( 2 ) The Central Government shall dispose of the appeal preferred under 
sub -section ( 1 ) according to procedure as may be prescribed . 


Re -entry in 
register. 


Appeal against 
order made by 
Central 
Council . 


( 3 ) The decision of the Central Government under sub - section ( 2 ) shall be final. 


CHAPTER IV 


FINANCE , ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT 


29. The Central Governmentmay, after due appropriation made by the Parliament by Payment by 
law in this behalf , pay to Central Council in each financial year such sums as may be Central 

Government. 
considered necessary for the performance of functions of the Central Council. 


272 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Fund of Central 30 . ( 1) The Central Council shall by notification in the Official Gazette constitute a 
Council . Fund to be known as the Central Physiotherapy Central Council Fund to which shall be 

credited , and all sumswhich may, from time to time, be paid to it by the Central Government 
and all the receipts of a Central Council , State Governmentor any other authority or person 
and all payments by a Central Council shall be made there from . 

( 2) All money belonging to the Fund shall be deposited in such banks or invested in 
such manner as may , subject to the approval of the Central Government, be decided by the 
Central Council . 

( 3) The CentralCouncilmay spend such sums as it thinks fit for performing its functions 
under this Act, and such sums shall be treated as expenditure payable out of the fund of the 

Central Council. 
Budget. 

31. The Central Council shall prepare , in such form and at such time each year as may 
be prescribed , a budget in respect of the financial year next ensuing showing the estimated 

receipts and expenditure, and copies there of shall before awarded to the CentralGovernment. 
Annual Report. 32 . The Central Council shall prepare once every year, in such form and at such time as 

may be prescribed , an annual report giving a true and full account of its activities during the 
previous year and copies there of shall be forwarded to the Central Government and that 

Government shall cause the same to be laid before both Houses of parliament. 
Accounts and 33. (1 ) The Central Council shall cause to be maintained such books of account and 

other books in relation to its accounts in such form and in such manner asmay , in consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor -General of India , be prescribed . 

(2) The Central Council shall , as soon as may be, after closing its annual accounts 
prepare a statement of accounts in such form , and forward the same to the Comptroller and 
Auditor-Generalof India by such date, as the Central Governmentmay, in consultation with 
the Comptroller and Auditor -General, determine. 

( 3 ) The accounts of the Cental Council shall be audited by the Comptroller and 
Auditor-General of India at such times and in such manner as he thinks fit . 

(4 ) The accounts of the Central Council as certified by the Comptroller and 
Auditor -General of India or any other person appointed by him in this behalf to get her with 
the audit report there on shall be forwarded annually to the Central Government and that 
Government shall cause the same to be laid before both Houses of parliament. 


audit . 


CHAPTER V 
MISCELLANEOUS 


as 


Prohibition in 34 .No clinical establishment, such ashospital,nursing home and other institutions of 
employment healthcare , shall appoint any person as physiotherapist unless his namehas been entered in 
physiotherapist the register of the Central Council . 
by clinical 
establishment. 
Penalty for 

35 . Any person who acts in contravention of the provisions of this Act or any rules or 
violation of regulations made there under , shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may 
provisions of a 

extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees, or with both . 
this Act. 
Penalty for 

36 . Any person whose name has not been entered or whose name is not deemed to 
practicing as have been entered in the register of the Central Council under this Act and is practicing as 
professional 

physiotherapist, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend upto six 
by non 

months, or with fine which may extend upto twenty thousand rupees , or with both . 
Punishment for 37. Any person 
dishonest use 
of certificates , 

(i) who dishonestly makes use of his entry in the register under the provisions of 
etc . 

this Act; or 


nrotecciona 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


273 


(ii) who dishonestly attempts to practice under provisions of this Act by making 
or producing or causing to bemade or produced any false or fraudulent declaration or 
representation whether in writing or otherwise ; or 

( iii )who willfully makes false representation in any matter relating to the register 
under the provisions of this Act; or 

(iv ) whose name has been removed from the register willfully practices as a 
physiotherapist, 

shall be punishable with simple imprisonmentwhich may extend to two years , or 
with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or both ; and for any subsequent 
offence, with imprisonment which may extend to three years, or with fine which may 
extend to twenty thousand rupees, or with both . 


Government. 


38 . No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act unless upon complaint Cognizance of 
made by order of, or under authority from the Central Government or the Central Council offences. 

39. ( 1) The Central Government may , from time to time, issue such directions to a Directions by 
Central Council as in the opinion of said Government are conducive for the fulfillment of the the Central 
objects of this Act and in the discharge of its functions, that Central Council shall be bound Gove 
to carry out any such directions. 

(2 ) Directions issued under sub -section (1 )may include directions to a Central Council 
to make any regulations or to amend or revoke any regulations already made . 

(3 ) If , in the opinion of the CentralGovernment, the Central Council has persistently 
committed default in giving effect to the directions issued under this section , the Central 
Governmentmay after giving an opportunity to the Central Council to state its case , by order, 
dissolve the Central Council where after a new Central Council shall be constituted in 
accordance with the provisions of this Act with effect from such date as may be notified by 
the CentralGovernment. 


actio 


aken 


(4 ) Where the Central Government passes an order under sub -section ( 3) dissolving 
the Central Council , itmay , pending the constitution of a new Central Council in accordance 
with the provisions of this Act , authorize any person or body of persons to take over the 
management of the affairs of the said Council and to exercise such functions as may be 
specified in this behalf by the CentralGovernment. 

40 . No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central Protection of 
Government, Central Council, or the Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson ,members, Secretary or 

in good faith . 
any officer or other employees of the Central Council in respect of anything which is in good 
faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act . 

41 . ( 1) The Central Government may, by notification , make rules to carry out the Power to 
provisions of this Act. 

make rules . 
(2 ) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the fore going power, such 
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: 

(a) the manner of filing an appeal under sub -section (1) of section 28 ; 
(b ) the procedure to dispose of appeal under sub -section (2 ) of section 28 ; 

(c ) the form and the time for preparation of budget of the Central Council under 
section 31; 

(d ) the form and the time for preparation of annual report of the Central Council 
under section 32 ; 


( e ) the form and the manner of maintenance of books of account under 
section 33 ; and 


(f) any other matter which is required to be ormay be prescribed . 


274 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


= 


Power to 
make 
regulations . 


42 . (1) The Central Council may,with the previous approval of the CentralGovernment, 
by notification , make regulations consistent with this Act and the rules made thereunder to 
carry out the provisions of this Act. 

(2) In particular , and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such 
regulationsmay provide for all or any of the following matters, namely : 

(a ) The time, place, procedure and quorum of the meeting of the Central Council 
under sub -section (1 ) of section 8 ; 

(b ) the manner and purpose for associating persons with the Central Council 
under sub- section ( 1) of section 10 ; 

(c) the composition , tenure and function of committees under section 11 ; 

(d ) the appointment, conditions of service and remuneration of the Secretary, 
officer and other employees under section 13 ; 

(e ) the minimum standards of education required for granting recognized 
qualifications under section 19 ; 

(A) the maintenance of register under sub -section ( 1) of section 23 ; 

(g ) the manner and payment for fee for entry of name in the register under 
sub - section ( 1) of section 24 ; 

(h ) themanner for refusing to enter the name in the register under sub -section ( 3) 
of section 24 ; 

(i) the standards of professional conduct and etiquette and code of ethics under 
sub - section ( 1) of section 25 ; 

(j) themanner to hold inquiry by the Disciplinary Committee under sub -section (1) 
of section 26 ; and 


(k ) the manner, payment of fee, conditions and requirement of re -entry of the 
name in the register under section 27 . 


Rules and 
regulations to 
be laid before 
Parliament. 


43. Every rule and every regulation made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may 
be after it is made, be for each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of 
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , 
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive 
sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or regulation , 
or both Houses agree that the rule or regulation should not be made , the rule or regulation 
shall, thereafter have effectonly in such modified form or be ofno effect, as the casemay be ; 
so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the 
validity of anything previously done under that rule or regulation . 

44 . ( 1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government may, by order, published in the Official Gazette , may makes provisions not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear it to be necessary for removing 
the difficulty : Provided that no such order shall bemade under this section after the expiry of 
a period of two years from the commencement of this Act. 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties. 


(2 ) Every order made under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


275 


STATEMENTOF OBJECT AND REASONS 


In order to keep pace with the advancement of medical science and development of 
new diagnostic and therapeutic techniques, there has been a quantum jump in the demand 
for physiotherapists . This has resulted in the establishment of a large number of institutions 
and centres for the training of these professionals , which are run without any supervision 
and control as to the quality and standard of education . 

Maintenance of proper standards in the training and education of physiotherapist 
professions is considered essential as these personnel play an inevitable role in healthcare 
delivery. With a view to regulating these professions, it is considered necessary to set up 
Council on the lines already existing for pharmacy , nursing , dental, medical etc . To begin 
with , it is proposed to set up separate Council for Physiotherapists. This Council will be 
responsible , inter alia , formaintenance of uniform standards of education in the physiotherapy 
disciplines and registration of qualified personnel for practicing the profession . 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects. 
Hence , this Bill. 


KIRIT PREMJIBHAI SOLANKI 


New Delhi; 
July 24 , 2017 . 


276 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Sub - clause ( 1) of clause 3 of the Bill provides for establishment of the Central Council 
of Physiotherapy. 

Clause 13 provides for appointment of Secretaries , Officers and other employees of the 
Central Council. 


Clause 21 provides for appointment of Inspectors for the Central Council . 
Clause 30 provides for establishment of Fund of the Central Council. 

The Bill , therefore, if enacted will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of 
India . It is estimated that a sum of about rupees one crore and ninety lakhs will be involved 
as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be involved 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the Central Council to make regulations to provide for 
the time, place, procedure and quorum for themeeting of the Central Council . 

Clause 10 empowers the Central Council to make regulationsto provide for the manner 
and the purposes for associating persons with itself whose assistance or advice it may 
require. 

Clause 11 empowers Central Council to make regulations to provide for the 
constitution of Committees. It empowers each Central Council to provide for the composition , 
tenure and functions of each such Committee . 


Clause 13 empowers the Central Council to make regulations to provide for the 
appointment of a Secretary , officers and other employees and to determine the conditions of 
service and entitlement to remuneration of the Secretary , officer and other employees . 


Clause 19 empowers the Central Council to determine by regulations the minimum 
standards of education required for granting recognized qualifications by the Universities or 
Institutions. 


Clause 23 empowers the Central Council to make regulations to provide for the manner 
of maintaining and entering the names in the Register of Central Council. 

Clause 24 empowers the Central Council to make regulations to provide for the manner 
of, and the fee for, making application for entering the name in the register. Sub -clause (3 ) 
thereof also empowers the Central Council to determine the manner of refusing to enter the 
name in the Register. 

Clause 25 empowers the Central Council to determine by regulations the standards of 
professional conduct and etiquette and the code of ethics for the practitioners. 

Clause 26 empowers the Central Council to determine by regulations the manner of 
holding inquiry by the Disciplinary Committee . 

Clause 27 empowers the Central Council to make regulation to provide for the manner 
of, the fee for, and the conditions and requirement for, re-entering the name in the Central 
Register. 


Clause 28 empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules to provide for the manner of 
filing appeal from the order of the Central Council relating to refusal to enter the name in , or 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


277 


removal of the name from , the Register . It also empowers the Central Government to provide 
for the procedure for disposal of such appeal. 

Clause 31 empowers the CetntralGovernment to make rules to provide for the form and 
the time for preparation of the Annual Budget of each Central Council . 

Clause 32 empowers the Central Government to make rules to provide for the form and 
the time for preparation of annual report of each Central Council. 

Clause 33 empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules to provide for the form and 
the manner ofmaintenance of books of accounts of the Central Council. As the matters for 
which the rules and regulations may be made pertain to matters of procedure or detail only, 
the delegation of legislative power is , therefore , of normal character . 


278 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 197 OF 2017 


Short title and 
commencement. 


A Bill to amend the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
1. (1) This Act may be called the Mental Healthcare ( Amendment) Act, 2017 . 

(2 ) It shall comeinto force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2 . In section 3 of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the principal 
Act) , sub - section ( 2 ), shall be omitted . 

3. In section 5 of the principal Act, for sub -section (1), the following sub - section shall 
be substituted , namely : 


Amendment of 
the Section 3 . 


10 of 2017 


Amendment 
of section 5 . 


" 5 . ( 1) Every person , who is not a minor, shall have a right to make an advance 
directive in writing .". 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


279 


4. After section 29 of the principal Act, the following section shallbe inserted, namely : - 


Insertion of 
new section 
29A . 


" 29A . (1) The appropriate Government shall conduct a survey to identify sections 
of the population vulnerable to mental illnesses, particularly persons from the Scheduled 
Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Persons with Disabilities. 


Special 
provisions for 
Scheduled 
Castes and 
Scheduled 
Tribes and 
Persons with 
Disabilities. 


(2 ) The appropriate Government shall have a duty to plan , design and implement 
programmes and schemes for the promotion of mental health awareness , prevention of 
mental illness and provision of counselling and psychiatric services amongst vulnerable 
sections of the population , particularly persons from the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled 
Tribes and the Persons with Disabilities . 


5 . In section 34 of the principal Act, after sub - section ( 1), the following proviso shall Amendment of 
be inserted , namely : 

section 34 . 
" Provided that out of the members referred to in clauses (i) to (p ) at least one 
member shall be from the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Persons 
with Disabilities." 


Amendment of 
section 46 . 


6 . In section 46 of the principal Act, after sub -section (1 ), the following proviso shall 
be inserted , namely: 

" Provided that out of the members referred to in clauses (h ) to (n ) at least one 
member shall from the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Persons with 
Disabilities." 


7 . In section 74 of the principal Act, in sub -section (1), for clause (c ), the following Amendment of 
clause shall be substituted , namely : 

section 74 . 
" (c ) three members of whom two shall be psychiatrists and the other shall be a 
medical practitioner.". 
8. After section 108 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted ,namely :— Insertion of 

new section 
108A . 


“ 108A . If any public servant, charged with duty of providing mental healthcare Punishment to 
services to mentally ill persons under this Act, fails to perform his duty, he shall be public servant 
punished with imprisonment for a term of one year or with fine of rupees ten thousand , for failure t 
in addition to departmental disciplinary action for dereliction of duty by theGovernment, 

+ perform duty . 
he shall be punished for notproviding the mentalhealthcare services offered to mentally 
ill persons under this Act in such manner asmay be prescribed ." . 


280 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India being the signatory to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of persons 
with disabilities in 2007 , which made it incumbent on the State to provide shield against the 
rights of persons with mental illness and promote their access to mental healthcare . 

The word competency originates from the word competent which indicates the concept 
involved in the Indian Contract Act, 1872 wherein section 11 connotes eligibility to make a 
contract. However, the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 has altered the doctor-patient relationship . 
Being on treatment by a psychiatrist will not take away a person s competence . 

Also , the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 should not be contrary to any existing law of the 
India . A mentally-ill person shall have the right to make an advance directive that states how 
he wants to be treated for the illness during a mental health situation and who shall be his 
nominated representative. Even it would be quite inappropriate to give such a right selectively 
to those with mental illnesses , while victims of all other illnesses are not given the same. It 
would be a case of equals being treated unequally and thatway discriminatory and unlawful. 

Moreover, the Bill seeks to provide formental healthcare and services for persons with 
mental illness and to protect, promote and fulfil the rights of such persons during delivery of 
mental healthcare and services . 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives . 


KIRIT PREMJIBHAI SOLANKI 


NEW DELHI; 
July 3 , 2017 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


281 


281 


Bill No. 265 OF 2017 


Short title and 
commencement. 


A Bill further to amend the Wild Life ( Protection ) Act, 1972 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1 ) This Act may be called theWild Life ( Protection ) Amendment Act, 2017 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government,may by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 

2 . After Chapter IVC of the Wild Life (Protection ) Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to 
article principal Act), the following Chapter shall be inserted , namely : 

"CHAPTER IVD 


53 of 1972 


Insertion of 
the new 
Chapter IVD . 


Definitions . 


LION CONSERVATION AUTHORITY 
38ZA. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " Lion Conservation Authority " means the Lion Conservation Authority 
constituted under section 38ZB ; 


282 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ Part II — 


Constitution 
of the Lion 
Conservation 
Authority . 


(b ) “ Lion Conservation Fund " means the Fund established under sub -section (2) 
of section 38ZG ; 

( c ) “ sanctuary " means the sanctuaries situated in the State Governments 
including Gir. 

38ZB. (1) The CentralGovernment shall constitute an Authority to be known as 
the Lion Conservation Authority, to exercise the powers conferred on , and to perform 
the functions assigned to it under this Act. 
(2) The Lion Conservation Authority shall consist of the following members, namely : 

(a ) the Minister in charge of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate 
Change - Chairperson ; 

(b ) the Minister of State in the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate 
Change and — Vice - Chairperson ; 

( c ) three members of Parliament of whom two shall be elected by the House of 
the People and one by the Council of States; 

(d ) the Minister in -charge of Wild Life from the State of Gujarat; 

(e ) five experts or professionals having prescribed qualifications and 
experience in conservation of wild life and welfare of people living in and around the 
Gir Sanctuary ; 

(f) Secretary,Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change ; 

(8) Director General of Forests and Special Secretary, Minister of Environment, 
Forests and Climate Change ; 

(h ) Director, Wild Life Preservation Ministryof Environment, Forests and Climate 
Change ; 

(i) Chief Wild Life Warden from the State of Gujarat; 

(1) Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Forests and Environment, State of 
Gujarat; 

(k ) Conservator of Forests , Gujarat Lion Conservator Society . 
(3 ) It is hereby declared that the office of member of the Lion Conservation Authority 
shall not disqualify its holder for being chosen as, or for being , a member of either House of 
Parliament. 

38ZC . ( 1) A member nominated under clause (e ) of sub -section (2 ) of section 38ZB 
shall hold office for such period not exceeding three years: 


Terms of 
office and 
conditions of 
the service of 
members . 


Provided that a member may, by writing under his hand addressed to the Central 
Government, resign from his office . 

(2) The Central Government shall remove a memebr referred to in clause (e) of 
sub -section (2 ) of section 38ZB , from office if he — 


(a ) is, or at any time has been , adjudicated as insolvent; 

(b ) has been convicted of an offence which , in the opinion of the Central 
Government, involves moral turpitude; 


(c ) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court ; 
(d ) refuses to act or becomes incapable of acting ; 

(e) is,without obtaining leave of absence from the Lion Conservation Authority , 
absent from three consecutive meetings of the said Authority ; or 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


283 


(f) has in the opinion of the Central Government so abused his position as to 
render his continuation in office detrimental to the public interest: 


Provided thatno member shall be removed under this sub - section unless he has 
been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the matter. 

(3 ) Any vacancy in the office of a member shall be filled by fresh appointment and such 
member shall continue for the remainder of the term of the member in whose placehe or she 
is appointed . 


(4 ) The salaries and allowances and other conditions of appointment of the members 
of the Lion Conservation Authority shall be such as may be prescribed . 


(5 ) No act or proceeding of the Lion Conservation Authority shall be questioned or 
shall be invalid on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or defect in the 
constitution of the Lion Conservation Authority . 

38ZD . ( 1) The Lion Conservation Authority may, with the previous sanction of the Officers and 
Central Government, appoint such other officers and employees as it considers necessary employees of 
for the efficient discharge of its functions under this Act. 

the Lion 

Conservation 
(2 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service Authority . 
of officers and other employees of the Lion Conservation Authority shall be as may be 
prescribed . 

38ZE . (1) The Lion Conservation Authority shall have the following powers and perform Powers and 
the following functions, namely : 

functions of 

the Lion 
(a ) to approve the Lion Conservation Plan prepared by the State Government Conservation 
under section 38ZK ; 

Authority . 
(b ) to evaluate and assess various aspects of sustainable ecology and disallow 
ecologically unsustainable land use such as mining , industry and other projects within 
the sanctuary ; 


( c ) to lay down normative standards for eco - tourism activities and guidelines for 
lion conservation ; 


( d ) to provide measures for addressing conflicts of men and wild animals and to 
emphasis on co -existence in the sanctuary ; 

(e) to provide information on protection measures including future conservation 
plan , estimation of population of lion and its natural prey species, status of habitat, 
disease surveillance , mortality survey, patrolling, reports on untoward happenings 
and such other management aspects as it may deem fit including future plan 
conservation ; 

(f) to identify exclusive lion corridors and zones for the facilitation of movement 
of lions, on the basis of consultation with the State Government concerned ; 

( g ) to approve, co -ordinate research and monitoring on lion , co - predators, prey , 
habitat, related ecological and socio -economic parameters and their evaluation ; 

(h ) to facilitate and support biodiversity conservation initiatives through 
eco -development and the participation of the local communities living in and around 
the sanctuary in eco -tourism and conservation related activities ; 

(i) to ensure critical support including scientific , information technology and 
legal support for better implementation of the lion conservation plan ; 

(j) to facilitate ongoing capacity building programme for skill development of 
officers and staff of sanctuary ; and 

(k) to perform such other functions as may be necessary to carry out the purposes 
of this Act with regard to conservation of lions and their habitat. 


284 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Meetings of 
the Lion 
Conservation 
Authority . 


(2 ) The Lion Conservation Authority may, in the exercise of its powers and performance 
of its functions under this Chapter, issue directions in writing to any person , officer or 
authority for the protection of the lion or sanctuary and such person , officer or authority 
shall be bound to comply with the directions: 

Provided that no such direction shall interfere with or affect the rights of local 
communities living in and around the sanctuary. 

38ZF . ( 1) The Lion Conservation Authority shall meet at least once in every six months 
at such time and at such place as the Chairperson may think fit . 

(2 ) The Chairperson or in his absence the Vice Chairperson shall preside over the 
meetings of the Lion Conservation Authority. 

(3) All orders and decisions of the Lion Conservation Authority shall be authenticated 
by the Member - Secretary or any other officer of the said Authority duly authorized by the 
Member -Secretary in this behalf. 

38ZG . (1 ) The Central Government may, after due appropriation made by Parliament by 
law in this behalf ,make to the Lion Conservation Authority grants and loans of such sums of 
money as the Government may consider necessary. 

(2) There shall be constituted a Fund to be called the Lion Conservation Fund and 
there shall be credited thereto — 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
grants to the 
Lion 
Conservation 
Authority and 
Constitute of 
Lion 
Conservation 
Authority 
Fund . 


(i) any grants and loansmade to the Lion Conservation Authority by the Central 
Government; 


( ii) all fees and charges received by the Lion Conservation Authority under this 
Act; and 


Maintenance 
of accounts 
and audit of 
the Lion 
Conservation 
Authority . 


( iii) all sums received by the said Authority from such other sources as may be 
decided upon by the Central Government. 

( 3) The Fund referred to in sub - section ( 2) shall be utilised for meeting salary, allowances 
and other remuneration of the members, officers, and other employees of the Lion 
Conservation Authority and the expenses of the Lion Conservation Authority incurred in 
the discharge of its functions under this Chapter. 

38ZH . (1) The Lion Conservation Authority shall maintain proper accounts and other 
relevant records and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may 
be prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with the Comptroller and 
Auditor -General of India . 

(2) The accounts of the Lion Conservation Authority shall be audited by the Comptroller 
and Auditor-Generalof India at such intervals asmay be specified by him and any expenditure 
incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable by the Lion Conservation Authority 
to the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India . 

38ZI. The Lion Conservation Authority shall prepare in such form and at such time, for 
each financial year, as may be prescribed , its annual report, giving a full account of its 
activities during the previous financial year and forward a copy thereof to the Central 
Government. 

38ZJ. The Central Government shall cause the annual report together with a 
memorandum of action taken on the recommendations contained therein , in so far as they 
relate to the Central Government, and the reasons for the non - acceptance, if any, of any of 
such recommendations, and the audit report to be laid , as soon as may be after the reports are 
received , before each House of Parliament. 

38ZK . (1) The State Government shall prepare a Lion Conservation Plan including staff 
development and deployment plan for the proper management of the sanctuary , so as to 
ensure 


Annual report 
of the Lion 
Conservation 
Authority . 


Annual and 
Audit Report 
to be laid 
before 
Parliament. 


Lion 
Conservation 


Plan . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


285 


(a ) protection of the sanctuary and providing specific habitat inputs for a viable 
population of lions, co -predators and prey animals without distorting the natural 
preypredator ecological cycle in the habitat; 

(b ) initiatives and activities to encourage participation of local communities in 
the conservation process and eco -tourism . 

( 2) Subject to the provisions contained in this Act, the State Government shall, while 
preparing a Lion Conservation Plan , ensure the agricultural, livelihood , developmental and 
other interests of the people living in and around the sanctuary. 

(3 ) Save as for voluntary relocation on mutually agreed terms and conditions, provided 
that such terms and conditions satisfy the requirements laid down in this sub -section , no 
forest dwellers shall be resettled or have their rights adversely affected for the purpose of 
creating inviolate areas for lion conservation unless 


(i) the process of recognition and determination of rights and acquisition of land 
or forest rights of the forest dwelling persons is complete ; 


(ii ) the concerned agencies of the State Government, in exercise of their powers 
under this Act, establish with the consent of the forest dwellers in the area , and in 
consultation with independent ecological and social scientists familiar with the area, 
that the activities of the forest dwellers or the impact of their presence upon wild 
animals is sufficient to came irreversible damage and shall threaten the existence of 
lions and their habitat; 

(iii ) the State Government, after obtaining the consent of the forest dwellers 
inhabiting the area , and in consultation with independent ecological and social scientists 
familiar with the area , have come to a conclusion that other reasonable options of 
co - existence , are not available ; 

( iv ) resettlement or alternative package has been prepared providing for livelihood 
for the affected individuals and communities and fulfills the requirements given in the 
National Relief and Rehabilitation Policy ; 


(v ) the informed consent of the Gram Sabha concerned , and of the persons 
affected , to the resettlement programme has been obtained ; and 


(vi) the facilities and land allocation at the resettlement location are provided 
under the said programme, otherwise their existing rights shall not be interfered with ." . 

3. In section 55 of the principal act, after cluase (ac), the following clause shall be Amendment 
inserted , namely : 

of section 55 . 
" (ad ) Member-Secretary , Lion Conservation Authority ;". 
4. In section 59 of the principal Act, after the word , figures and letter " Chapter IVC " , Amendment 
the word , figures and letter " Chapter IVD " shall be inserted . 

of section 59 . 
5 . In section 60 of the principalAct, in sub -section ( 3) ,after the word , figures and letter Amendment 
" Chapter IVC " , the word , figures and letter "Chapter IVD " shall be inserted . 

of section 60 . 
6 . In section 63 of the principal Act, in sub - section (1 ), after clause ( gvi), the following Amendment 
clauses shall be inserted , namely : 

of section 63 . 
" ( gvii ) qualification and experience of experts or professionals under clause (e ) 
of sub - section (2 ) of section 38ZB ; 

( gviii ) the salaries and allowances and other conditions of appointment of the 
members under sub -section (4 ) of section 38ZC ; 

( gix ) the form in which the annual statement of accounts of Lion Conservation 
Authority shall be prepared under sub- section ( 1) of section 38ZH ; 

(gx ) the form in which and the time atwhich the annual report of Lion Conservation 
Authority shall be prepared under section 38ZI." . 


286 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The State of Gujarat is home to some of the last living Asiatic Lions. While their 
numbers have been steadily increasing , the species are still considered to be endangered . 
A sustainable solution to ensure the protection of lions can only emerge from within an 
inclusive and comprehensive framework , which must be the result of a consensus formed at 
the national level. 

The increasing population of the Asiatic Lion has led to a unique problem of habitat 
and crowding . By pushing the boundaries of the areas inhabited by lions from the forests to 
nearby local villages and towns, the chances of man -animal conflict increase . As a result , 
exclusive lion zones and corridors need to be established to ensure the existence of adequate 
habitat. 

The foundation of any conservation strategy is the pattern of ownership that it 
advocates. A strong emphasis on community control should be considered . The local 
communities living around the Gir Sanctuary as well as the forest officials have played an 
undeniable role in the conservation of the Asiatic Lion . Thus, community control and the 
participation of local populations in the conservation process should be insitutionalized and 
encouraged . 

Furthermore , a Project Lion , along the lines of the Project Tiger should be considered 
in order to facilitate adequate funding and awareness . This can be supplemented with an 
encouragement of eco - tourism . Addressing these issues can help create the framework 
necessary for the sustainable and long-term conservation of the Asiatic Lion . 

The Bill , therefore, seeks to amend the Wildlife (Protection ) Act, 1972 with a view to 
provide for 

(i) constitution of the Lion Conservation Authority ; 

(ii) conferreing powers and functions of the Lion Conservation Authority , so as 
to include 

(a ) approval of Lion Conservation Plan prepared by State Governments; 

(b ) lay down normative standards, guidelines for tiger conservation in the 
buffer and core areas of Lion reserve, apart from ensuring their due compliance ; 

(c ) providing information on protection measures including future 
conservaiton plan , lion estimation , disease surveillance , mortality survey , 
patrolling , reports on untowards happenings and such other management aspects 
as it may deem fit , including future plan for conservation ; 

(d ) approve and co - ordinate research on lion , its habitat and related 
ecological and socio -economic parameters . 

(e ) facilitate and support bio diversity conservation through 
eco -development and people s participation as per approved management plans, 
and to support similar initiatives in adjoining areas . 

(iii) preparing the Annual Report of the Lion Conservation Authority and 
sub -mission of the audited report to the Central Government for laying before Parliament. 

(iv ) preparation of the Lion Conservation Plans by State Governments including 
staff development and deployment, protection , habitat inputs, addressing the livelihood 
concerns of local people and compatibility of forestry operations in the adjoining 
Forest Divisions ; and 

(v ) ensuring the agricultural, livelihood , developmental and other interests of 
people living inside forests or in Lion bearing forest areas. 
Hence , this Bill. 


KIRIT PREMJIBHAI SOLANKI 


NEW DELHI; 
November 28 , 2017 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


287 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 2 of the Bill seeks to provide for the constitution of the Lion Conservation 
Authority . It also provides for appointment of the officers and other employees to the 
Authority . It also provides that Central Government shall provide grants and loans to the 
Authority for being utilised for the purposes of the Bill. It further provides for constitution of 
the Lion Conservation Authority Fund in which all grants , loans made by the Central 
Government, fees and charges etc. received by the Authority shall be credited . The expenditure 
relating to States shall be borne by the Consolidated Fund of the State Government concerned . 
The Bill , therefore , if enacted , will involve recurring expenditure ofrupees two hundred Crore 
per annum which shall be charged from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees fifty crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUMREGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 2 of the Bill provides for the constitution of the Lion Conservation Authority to 
which the CentralGovernment may prescribe by rules 

(i) the salaries , allowances and other conditions of appointment ofmembers of 
the Authority ; 

( ii) the terms and conditions of service of officers and other employees of the 
Authority ; 

( iii ) the form in which the annual statement of accounts of the Authority is to be 
prepared ; and 

(iv ) the form and time for submitting annual reports of the Authority to the 
CentralGovernment. 


As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of legislative power is of 
a normal character. 


288 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 230 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the prevention , diagnosis, treatment and control of the spread of 
tuberculosis and for the protection of the rights of patients affected by the 
tuberculosis disease and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


WHEREAS the continued spread of tuberculosis is a matter of grave concern to all and 
there is an urgent need for the prevention and control of the said disease ; 


AND WHEREAS there is a need to protect and secure the rights of persons who are 
affected with tuberculosis and vulnerable to the said disease ; 


AND WHEREAS there is a necessity for effective care , support and treatment for 
tuberculosis ; 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


289 


AND WHEREAS the General Assembly of the United Nations has adopted the 
Sustainable DevelopmentGoals, which call for a reduction in tuberculosis -related deaths 
and the World Health Organization has adopted the End TB Strategy for a reduction in the 
incidence of Tuberculosis by 2035 through collective global efforts ; 

AND WHEREAS the Republic of India , being a signatory to the aforementioned Goals 
and Strategy , it is expedient to give effect to the said Goals and Strategy . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty- eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


CHAPTERI 


PRELIMINARY 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Tuberculosis ( Prevention and Control) Act, 2017 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


Definitions . 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernment,may, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) “ Aadhaar” means Aadhaar number issued by the Unique Identification 
Authority of India under sub - section (3 ) of section 3 of the Aadhaar ( Targeted Delivery 
of Financial and other Subsidies Benefits and Services ) Act, 2016 ; 

(b ) “ discrimination ” means any act or omission which directly or indirectly , 
expressly or by effect, immediately or over a period of time, 

(i) imposes any burden , obligation , liability , disability or disadvantage on 
any person or category of persons, based on one or more tuberculosis - related 
grounds ; or 


18 of 2016 


( ii ) denies or withholds any benefit , opportunity or advantage from any 
person or category of persons, based on one or more tuberculosis-related 

grounds, 
and the expression “ discriminate ” to be construed accordingly ; 


(c) “ guidelines” means any statement or any other document issued by the 
Central Government indicating policy or procedure or course of action relating to 
tuberculosis to be followed by the Central Government, State Governments , 
Governmental and non -Governmental organisations and establishments and 
individuals dealing with prevention , control and treatment of tuberculosis ; 

(d ) “ HIV -positive person ” means a person whose HIV test has been confirmed 
positive ; 

(e ) “ Multi -drug Resistant Tuberculosis (MDR - TB)” means a strain of the 
tuberculosis bacteria resistant to two of the most effective anti -tuberculosis drugs 
available, isoniazid and rifampicin ; 


(f) “ notification ” means a notification published in the OfficialGazette ; 


(g ) “ NIKSHAY ” means a web based solution for monitoring of tuberculosis 
patients developed by the National Informatics Centre ; 

(h ) “ person ” includes an individual, a Hindu Undivided Family , a company, a 
firm , an association of persons or a body of individuals , whether incorporated or not, 
in India or outside India , any corporation established by or under any Central or State 
Act or any company including a Government company incorporated under the 
Companies Act, 1956 , any Limited Liability Partnership under the Limited Liability 
Partnership Act, 2008, any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a 


1 of 1956 . 
6 of 2009. 


290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


country outside India, a co - operative society registered under any law relating to 
cooperative societies , a local authority and every other artificial juridical person ; 

(i) “ prescribed” means prescribed by rules made by the CentralGovernment or 
the State Government, as the case may be ; 

(j) “ Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program (RNTCP )” means the 
program launched by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in 1997 ; 

(k ) “ State Government” in relation to a Union territory ,means the Administrator 
of that Union territory appointed by the President under article 239 of the Constitution ; 

(1) “ tuberculosis” means an infectious disease caused by a bacterium , 
Mycobacterium Tuberculosis that is spread through the air ; and 

(m ) “ tuberculosis -affected person ” means an individual who is suffering from 
any strain of the tuberculosis disease . 


CHAPTER II 


PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION 
3. No person shall discriminate against the tuberculosis -affected person on any ground 
including any of the following, namely: 


Prohibition of 

tion, 


discrimi 


(a ) the unfair treatment in , or in relation to employment or occupation ; 


(b ) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment in , healthcare services; 


(c ) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment in educational 
establishments and services thereof; 


(d ) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatmentwith regard to , the right 
ofmovement; 

(e ) the denial or discontinuation of, or unfair treatment with regard to the right 
to reside, purchase , rent or otherwise occupy, any property ; 


(f) the denial of access to , removal from , or unfair treatment in ,Government or 
private establishment in whose care or custody a person may be ; 


( g ) the isolation or segregation of a tuberculosis- affected person . 


CHAPTER III 


MOLECULAR TESTING AND DAILY DOSAGE TREATMENT 


Central and 
State 
Governments 
to take 
measures . 


4 . The Central Government and every State Government, as the case may be, shall 
take all measures as it deems necessary and expedient for the prevention of spread of 
tuberculosis, in accordance with the guidelines . 


111 


Molecular 
Testing and 
daily dose of 
Multi -drug 
Resistant 
(MDR - TB ) 
Tuberculosis . 


5 . ( 1) The measures to be taken by the Central Government or the State Government 
under section 4 shall include the measures for providing , as far as possible , Molecular 
Testing methods for diagnosis and daily dosage treatment for those living with Multi-drug 
Resistant (MDR - TB ) Tuberculosis, in particular. 

( 2 ) The Central Government shall issue necessary guidelines in respect of protocols 
for tuberculosis relating to Molecular Testing and Daily Dosage treatment, which shall be 
applicable to all persons and shall ensure their wide dissemination. 

6 . The Central Government shall take steps to ensure the introduction and 
availability of the latest anti -tuberculosis drugs in all public hospitals and Government 
run pharmacies. 


Availability 
of latest anti 
tuberculosis 
drugs. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


291 


7 . No diagnostic centre or laboratory shall conduct a diagnostic test for tuberculosis Guidelines for 
or Multi-drug Resistant Tuberculosis except in accordance with the guidelines laid down tes 
for such test under this Act. 


centres. 


CHAPTER IV 


DIGITAL DATABASE AND TRACKING OF TUBERCULOSIS TREATMENT AND CARE 

8 . Every public and private hospitals and clinics shall notify tuberculosis patients Mandatory 
under their treatment and care on the web -based NIKSHAY platform under the Revised notification 
National Tuberculosis Control Programme to facilitate real time tracking of treatment and 

Tuberculosis 
care such patients . 

patients . 


of 


9 . The CentralGovernment and every State Government shall take measures to ensure 
that every Tuberculosis - affected person is enrolled under Aadhaar to ensure unique 
identification of patients seeking care and facilitate direct benefit transfers under the welfare 
measures mentioned under Chapter VI of this Act. 


Enrolment 
under Aadhaar 
for 
Tuberculosis 
patients 
seeking 
treatment. 


CHAPTER V 


IDENTIFICATION OF VULNERABLE SECTIONS OF THE POPULATION 
10 . ( 1) Every State Government shall , with the assistance from the Central Identification 
Government, carry out identification of the poor and vulnerable sections of the 

of vulnerable 

sections of 
population within the jurisdiction of each tuberculosis program in such manner as may 

the 
be prescribed . 

population . 
( 2 ) The identification under sub -section (1 ) shall include , but shall not be limited to 
women , children , below poverty line households and HIV -positive persons. 

11 . Every State Government shall , within six months of the Act coming into force , State 
present the CentralGovernment with a list of vulnerable sections within every tuberculosis 
program and formulate a plan to create awareness and initiate preventive measures about 

to present list 

of vulnerable 
disease among such vulnerable sections . 

sections to 
the Central 

Government. 
CHAPTER VI 


Government 


WELFARE MEAURES BY CENTRAL AND STATE GOVERNMENT 
12 . (1 ) The Central Government and every State Government shall take measures to Nutritional, 
facilitate better access to welfare, access to persons infected or affected by tuberculosis , financial and 
which shall include but will not be limited to : 

psycho - social 

support for 
( a ) nutritional support, if malnutrition or undernourishment is detected , under 

Tuberculosis 

patients . 
the public distribution scheme or any other related food security scheme; 

(b ) financial support , under a health insurance or coverage scheme, for below 
poverty line patients to reduce out of pocket expenditure ; 


(c ) psychological and social support, through free counseling , for patients and 
their families. 


(2 ) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub -section ( 1) , the Central and State 
Governments shall frame schemes to address the needs of tuberculosis -affected women 
and children as well those from vulnerable sections of society , including those who are HIV 
positive . 

13 . The CentralGovernment and State Government shall formulate tuberculosis related 
information , education and communication programmes which are non -discriminatory. 


Tuberculosis 
related 
awareness 
programs. 


292 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Guidelines for 
care , etc. of 
children and 
HIV - persons 
affected by 
tuberculosis . 


14 . The Central Government shall lay down guidelines for care , support and 
treatment of children affected with tuberculosis and HIV -positive persons affected by 
tuberculosis . 


CHAPTER VII 
NATIONAL AND STATE TUBERCULOSIS ELIMINATION BOARDS 
15 . (1) The CentralGovernment shall, by notification in the OfficialGazette , constitute 
a National Tuberculosis Elimination Board , to facilitate the eradication of tuberculosis in 
the country. 


Constitution 
of the 
National 
Tuberculosis 
Elimination 
Board . 


(2 ) The National Board shall include, - 

(a ) The Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare — Chairperson ; 
(b ) The Secretary , Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare — Member; 

(c ) representatives from the Indian Council ofMedical Research to be nominated 
by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed - Member; 


( d ) representatives from Health Departments of every State Government to be 
nominated by the CentralGovernment in such manner asmay be prescribed — Member; 


(e )medical practitioners from private medical hospitals and clinics to be nominated 
by the CentralGovernment in such manner as may be prescribed — Member ; 

(f) members from affected communities to be nominated by the Central 
Government in such manner as may be prescribed — Member ; and 


(8 ) representatives from non -Governmental Organisations working in the field 
of prevention , control and treatment of tuberculosis to be nominated by the Central 
Government in such manner as may be prescribed — Member. 

(3) The salary and allowance payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
members of the National Board shall be such as may be prescribed . 

16 . The National Board shall, — 


Functions of 
the National 
Board . 


(a ) formulate a comprehensive strategy to ensure the elimination of the disease , 
with an aim to achieving national and international commitments; 


(b ) keep track of new medical diagnostic technologies and anti -tuberculosis 
drugs and ensuring their easy availability ; 

(c ) provide incentives to the private sector to assist in the elimination of 
tuberculosis ; 

(d ) create awareness and prevention strategies on the basis of the mapping and 
identification conducted by every State Government under section 10 ; 

(e) track the activities of the Ombudsman appointed under section 18 ; 
(1) receive quarterly reports from the State Tuberculosis Elimination Boards ; 

(g ) ensure that adequate financial, nutritional and psycho -social support is 
provided to tuberculosis - affected patients under a variety of Government schemes ; 
and 


(h ) take decisions regarding any other policy or scheme related to tuberculosis 
and the rights of the patients seeking treatment and care for the said disease . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


293 


17 . ( 1) Every State Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette, Constitution 
constitute a State Tuberculosis Elimination Board to carry out the functions of this 

is of State 

Tuberculosis 
Act. 

Elimination 

Boards. 
(2) The State Tuberculosis Elimination Boards shall consist of a Chairperson and 
such other number ofmembers as may be determined by the State Government in consultation 
with the National Board . 

(3 ) The salary and allowance payable to Chairperson and other member of the State 
Tuberculosis Elimination Board shall be such asmay be prescribed . 


CHAPTER VIII 


APPOINTMENT OF OMBUDSMAN 


Appointment 
of 
Ombudsman . 


18 . (1 ) Every State Government shall appoint one or more Ombudsman 

(a ) possessing such qualification and experience as may be prescribed , or 

(b ) designate such number of officers not below the rank of District Magistrate , 
to exercise such powers and discharge such functions, as may be conferred on 
Ombudsman under this Act . 


(2 ) The terms and conditions of the service of an Ombudsman appointed under 
clause (a ) of sub -section ( a ) shall be such as may be prescribed by the State Government. 

(3 ) The Ombudsman appointed under sub -section ( 1) shall have such jurisdiction in 
respect of such are or areas as the State Government may , by notification , specify. 


19 . ( 1) The Ombudsman shall , upon a complaint made by any person , inquire into the Powers of 
violation of the provisions of this Act, in relation to healthcare services by any person , in Ombudsman . 
such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government. 

(2 ) The Ombudsman shall maintain records of complaints in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 

20 . The complaints shall be made to the Ombudsman in such manner, as may be Procedure of 
prescribed. 

complaint. 
21 . The Ombudsman shall, after giving an opportunity of being heard to the parties , Reasonable 
pass such order, as he deems fit , giving reasons therefor. 

opportunity 
of being 

heard . 
22 . All authorities including the civil authorities functioning in the area for which the Authorities to 
Ombudsman has been appointed under section 18 shall assist in execution of orders passed assist 
by the Ombudsman . 

Ombudsman . 
23 . The Ombudsman shall, after every six months, report to the State Government,the Report to 
number and nature of complaints received , the action taken and orders passed in relation to St 

Government . 
such complaints and such report shall be published on the website of the Ombudsman and 
a copy thereof be forwarded to the Central Government. 


State 


CHAPTER IX 


PENALTIES 


24 . Whoever fails to comply with any order given by an Ombudsman within such time Penalty for 
as may be specified in such order shall be liable to pay a fine which may extend upto ten 

failure to 

comply with 
thousand rupees and in case the failure continues , with an additional fine which may extend 

orders of 
to five thousand rupees for every day during which the failure continues. 

Ombudsman . 


25 . No person shall subject any other person or persons to any detriment on the Prohibition 

of 
ground that such person or persons have taken any of the following actions namely: 

victimization . 
(a ) made complaint under this Act; 


294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(b ) brought proceedings under this Act against any person ; 

(c) furnished any information or produced any document to a person exercising 
or performing any power or function under this Act; or 

(d) appeared as a witness in a proceeding under this Act . 
26 . No court other than the court of JudicialMagistrate First Class shall take cognizance 
of an offence under this Act. 


Court to try 
offences. 


Cffences. 


CHAPTER X 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Act to have 
overriding 
effect. 


Protection of 
action taken 
in good faith . 


27 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the time in force or in any instrumenthaving effect 
by virtue of any law other than this Act. 

28 . No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central 
Government, the State Government, the Ombudsman or any member thereof or any officer 
or other employee or person acting under the direction either of the Central Government, 
the State Government, or Ombudsman in respect of anything which is in good faith done or 
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rules or guidelines made thereunder or 
in respect of the publication by or under the authority of the Central Government, the State 
Government or Ombudsman . 

29 . The Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be , may, by 
general or special order, direct that any power exercisable by it under this Act shall, in such 
circumstances and under such conditions , if any , as may be mentioned in the order, be 
exercisable also by an officer subordinate to thatGovernment or the local authority . 


Delegation of 
powers. 


Central 
Government 
to make 
guidelines. 


30 . The Central Governmentmay, by notification , make guidelines consistentwith 
this Act and any rules thereunder, generally to carry out the provisions of this Act. 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


Power of 
Central 
Government 

it 
to make 
Rules . 


31 . ( 1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government may , by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions , not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to be necessary for removing 
the difficulty : 

Provided that no order shall be made under this section after the expiry of the period 
of two years from the date of commencement of this Act . 

( 2 ) Every order made under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is 
made, before each House of Parliament. 

32 . ( 1) The Central Government may , by notification , make rules to carry out the 
provisions of this Act. 
PTOVS 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should notbe made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule. 

33. (1) The State Government may, by notification , make rules for carrying out the 
provisions of this Act. 

( 2 ) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid , as soon as 
may be, after it is made before the Legislature of that State . 


Power of State 
Governments 
to make Rules. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


295 


STATEMENT OFOBJECTS AND REASONS 


Although tuberculosis is a preventable and treatable disease, yet it continues to be a 
serious public health epidemic in India . India bears the highest tuberculosis burden in the 
world , accounting for 23 per cent. of the global incidence of active tuberculosis patients . It 
is estimated that 1 ,400 Indians die every day due to tuberculosis . Since India is a signatory 
to the World Health Organization s End TB Strategy and the United Nations Sustainable 
DevelopmentGoals , the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has formulated the National 
Strategic Plan to eliminate Tuberculosis by 2025 . 

To supplement the strategies outlined within this Plan , the Bill aims to address all 
aspects of the diagnosis, treatment, prevention and control of the spread of tuberculosis as 
well as the rights of the patients seeking care. It mandates the creation of a National 
Tuberculosis Elimination Board , which will be the apex body directing all efforts to combat 
the disease along with State -level Boards. It also provides for appointment of an Ombudsman 
to address the grievances of patients and related stakeholders. 

The Bill prohibits certain discriminatory acts that stigmatize patients and their families 
and mandates the Central Government and StateGovernments to undertake welfare measures 
to provide financial , nutritional and psycho - social support to patients from vulnerable 
sections of the population . To facilitate the tracking of tuberculosis treatment and care , the 
Billmakes it mandatory for both public and private hospitals and clinics to notify tuberculosis 
patients under their care on the web -based NIKSHAY portal and encourage all patients 
seeking care to enroll under Aadhaar. 

Tuberculosis is India s most severe public health crisis and combating it will require 
the collective and sustained effort of all stakeholders . The Bill aims to ensure that India will 
achieve its goal to eliminate tuberculosis by 2025 and it seeks to achieve the above objects. 


Hence , this Bill . 


KIRIT PREMJIBHAI SOLANKI 


NEW DELHI; 
November 27 , 2017. 


296 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ Part II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides that the Central Government and every State Government, 
as the case may be , shall take all measures as it deems necessary and expedient for the 
prevention of spread of tuberculosis, in accordance with the guidelines. Clause 5 provides 
for measures to be taken by the CentralGovernment or the State Government for providing 
Molecular Testing methods for diagnosis and daily dosage treatment for those living with 
Multi -drug Resistant (MDR - TB ) Tuberculosis. Clause 10 provides for every State 
Government to carry out identification of the poor and vulnerable sections of the population 
within the jurisdiction of each tuberculosis program . Clause 12 provides that the Central 
Government and every State Government to take measures to facilitate better access to 
welfare , access to persons infected or affected by tuberculosis including nutritional support, 
financial support and social support . Clause 15 provides that the CentralGovernment shall 
constitute a Board to be known as the National Tuberculosis Elimination Board . Clause 17 
provides for constitution of the State Tuberculosis Elimination Boards. Clause 18 provides 
for appointment of Ombudsman . The Bill, therefore , if enacted , will involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is likely to involve an annual recurring expenditure 
of about rupees one hundred crore from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees fifty crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUMREGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 4 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make guidelines consistent 
with the proposed legislation and rules thereunder to carry out its provisions. Clause 32 of 
the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the provisions of 
this Act. Asmatters in respect of which rules may be made under the aforesaid provisions 
are matters of procedure and administrative detail only, the delegation of legislative power 
is , therefore, of a normal character. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


297 


Bill No . 19 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for right to free and compulsory education from primary to university 
level to the children of farmers living in drought prone areas and for matters 

connected therewith . 
Be it enactedby Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. ( 1) This Actmay be called the Right to Free and Compulsory Education for Children 
of Farmers Living in Drought Prone Areas Act, 2018 . 

(2) It extends to the whole of India. 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions. 


2 . In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires, — 


(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 


(b ) " college" means an educational institution owned or controlled by the Central 
Government or the State Government which imparts higher education ; 


(c ) child means a male or female who has attained the age of five years but not 
attained the age of twenty -five years; 


(d ) " drought prone areas" means the areas consistently receiving below normal 
rainfall and includes such areas which in the opinion of CentralGovernment are drought 
prone areas and declared as such , by notification in the OfficialGazette , in consultation 
with the State Governments concerned ; 


(e ) " farmer " means a person who performs agricultural related works and has no 
income from any source other than agriculture ; 


(f) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 


(8 ) " school" means any school recognised by the State Government or the 
CentralGovernment; and 


(h ) "University " means any university or deemed university recognised by 
University Grants Commission (UGC) or All India Council for Technical Education 
( AICTE ) or MedicalCouncil of India. 


Right of every 
child to free 


3. (1) Every child of a farmer living in drought prone area shall have the right to free and 
compulsory education in a neighbourhood school or college or university till completion of 
his graduation . 


and 


compulsory 
education in 
any school or 
college or 
university . 


(2) No child shall be liable to pay any kind of fee or charge or expenses for pursuing 
and completing the education till graduation or any other equivalent degree. 


(3 ) Any child above the age of five years and not been admitted in any school shall be 
admitted in a class appropriate to his age : 


Provided that a child who is directly admitted in a class appropriate to his age, shall,in 
order to be at par with others, have the right to receive special training , in such manner and 
within such time as may be prescribed : 


Provided further that a child so admitted to school shall be entitled to get free education 
till he completes his graduation or equivalent degree . 


(4 ) Every child shall be provided books, uniform , shoes, school bags, water bottle and 
other stationery items required for his study in any school or college or university free of 
cost . 


(5 ) Every child shall be provided such amount of scholarship as may be prescribed 
by the appropriate Government which shall be payable to the parents of the child for 
encouraging them not to withdraw their children from school to help them in earning 
livelihood . 


Central 
Government 
to ensure free 
education to 
children in 
drought 
affected areas. 


4 . The Central Government shall, with the assistance of the State Government 
concerned in whose jurisdiction the drought affected area falls , ensure free education till 
graduation to the children of farmers living in drought prone areas in such manner as may 
be prescribed . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


299 


5 . The appropriate Government shall maintain adequate supply of free Provision of free 
mid -day -meal and potable water to the children studying in educational institutions 

mid -day-meal 

and potable 
through tankers or through othermeans as it may consider appropriate in the drought prone 

water to the 
areas. 

children in 
drought prone 


areas . 


6 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament, by law , in Central 
this behalf, provide adequate funds to the State Governments for carrying out the purposes Government 
of this Act. 

to provide 

funds 
7 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the Act not in 
provisions in any other law , for the time being in force . 

derogation of 
only other 

law . 
8 . ( 1) The appropriate Government may, by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make Power to 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

make rules . 
(2 ) Every rulemade under this Act by the CentralGovernment shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made , before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total 
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive 
sessions, and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 
both the Houses agree that the rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect 
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 

(3) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before the State Legislature . 


300 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Over sixty per cent. of India s total land is under agriculture and nearly twenty - three 
per cent. covered by forests. Though , India is no longer an " agricultural economy", around 
seventy per cent. of its ruralhouseholds still depend primarily on agriculture for their livelihood . 

In India , the failure of the monsoons result in water shortages, resulting in 
below - average crop yields . This is particularly true of major drought-prone regions. Large 
numbers of areas in various parts of the country particularly in the States of Jharkhand, 
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh , Odisha, Andhra Pradesh , etc . are frequently affected by 
unprecedented drought and play havoc in such areas . The onset of drought is slow and the 
impact is multi -dimensional. One of the most obvious ways of breaking out of the cycle of 
poverty is education . Unfortunately, education is the most severely affected aspect of 
children s life in the event of drought and indebtedness. Children are often withdrawn from 
school and compelled to work on the field or look for jobs, or simply migrate with their 
parents . Their education needs to be compromised , so they don t go to bed hungry . 


In the event of food insecurity and drought, younger children often migrate with their 
parents , in search of better livelihoods. According to the report, these young children are 
vulnerable to hazards at work sites which their parents are exposed to . These children are 
perhaps the most vulnerable to the worst kinds of child labour. In a desperate situation , 
children are forced to contribute to the family income.Meanwhile , the children who are left 
behind to take care of the elder members of the family are expected to juggle between their 
education and responsibilities at home. 

It is, therefore, necessary that the appropriate Government shall provide free and 
compulsory education to every child of farmers living in drought prone areas along with a 
scholarship or consolation amount to ensure their education and to remove their debts and 
poverty . 

Hence, this Bill . 


CHANDRAKANT KHAIRE 


NEW DELHI; 
December 8 , 2017 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


301 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides that every child of a farmer living in drought prone areas 
shall have a right to free and compulsory education in a neighbourhood school or college or 
university till completion of his graduation . Clause 5 provides for provision of free mid day 
meal and potable water to the children studying in educational institutions in drought prone 
areas. Clause 6 provides that the Central Government shall provide funds to the State 
Government for carrying out the provisions of this Act. The Bill, therefore, if enacted , will 
involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring 
expenditure of rupees five hundred crore will be involved from the Consolidated Fund of 
India per annum . 

No non -recurring expenditure is likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill. As the rules relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


302 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 20 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act, 1967. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) AmendmentAct, 2018 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


303 


2 . After section 23 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention ) Act, 1967, the following Insertion of 

new sections 
sections shall be inserted , namely : 

23A to 23C . 


" 23A . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernment shall,by notification in the Official Gazette , set up Setting up of 
a Special Court in every State capital to try the offences of terrorist acts . 

Special Courts 

to try the 
(2) The Special Court shall consist of — 

offences of 

terrorist acts . 
(a ) two judges of the Supreme Court; 
(b ) one judge from the High Court to be appointed on rotation basis ; 
(c) one retired judge of the Supreme Court; and 

( d ) one retired judge of the High Court, 
to be appointed by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 

( 3) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
the Judges mentioned under clauses (c ) and ( d ) of sub -section ( 2 ) shall be such as may be 
prescribed 

23B . The Special Court shall dispose of every case of terrorist act within a period of Special Court 
forty -five days from the date of framing of charges . 

to try cases 
within forty 
five days . 


23C . No appeal shall lie in any Court against the order of the Special Court." . 


Restriction of 
appeal against 
the order of 
the Special 
Court . 


304 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
According to Global Terrorism Report 2017, India is among top ten terrorism affected 
countries of the world . In the year 2016 , 929 terrorist attacks occured in India which claimed 
the lives of 340 people. The day of 28th November , 2008 is an unforgettable day . On this day 
terrorist attack happened on India s financial capital, Mumbai, after this attack India s GDP 
growth rate shrunk to 7 per cent. yearly while India s GDP growth rate was moving ahead at 
the rate of 9 .3 per cent till the year 2008 . Report released by Moody s Investors Services said 
that terrorist attacks in India have impacted its economynegatively in the long run .According 
to Moody s its study tells that economic activities have been slowed considerably due to 
terrorist attacks and it impacted the economy in long term . 

Terrorism impacts the economy in many ways , apart from direct loss due to attacks, it 
is not easy to make conducive environment for the investors with the presence of terrorism . 
On the other hand , widespread expenditure occurs on establishment and maintenance of 
anti- terrorism system , weapon , other defence materials, arrangement of human resources 
and training etc. Terrorism has also direct and deep ill -effects on tourism . 

Government cost to take debt has risen due to terrorist attacks . Cost of debt had risen 
from 0 .41 to 0 .65 in countries worst affected by terrorism . International Monetary Fund s 
researchers R . Bairry Johnston and Oana M . Nedelescu said in their paper, titled " The Impact 
of Terrorism on FinancialMarkets " issued in 2005 , discusses some of the direct and indirect 
economic consequences of terrorism and inter alia states that — 

“ . ......... The direct economic costs of terrorism , including the destruction of life and 
property, responses to the emergency , restoration of the systems and the infrastructure 
affected , and the provision of temporary living assistance , are most pronounced in the 
immediate aftermath of the attacks and thusmatter more in the short run........... 

The indirect costs of terrorism can be significant and have the potential to affect the 
economy in the medium term by undermining consumer and investor confidence ....... 

Finally , over the longer term , there is a question of whether the attacks can have a 
negative impact on productivity by raising the costs of transactions through increased 
security measures, higher insurance premiums, and the increased costs of financial and 
other counter-terrorism regulations....." 

According to Global Terrorism Report 2017 , India ranks on 8th place in the terrorism 
affected countries of the world . Country s status can be ascertained from this that India s 
condition is worse than Libya . 

Thus, if India is to become economic and strategic power then it has to complete the 
judicial process within forty - five days against arrested terrorists to make India terror -free . 
The need is to set up Special Courts in capital of every State to try the cases of terrorist acts 
and complete judicial process within forty -five days. Terrorists should not have right to 
appeal. The CentralGovernment should also ensure the compliance to the decision of Special 
Courts within ten days and it should be made mandatory to inform the Special Courts about 
the enforcement of punishment within prescribed time. High security to terrorists and to 
keep them alive on State s spending increases the economic burden of the Government. 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the UnlawfulActivities (Prevention ) Act, 1967 with 
a view to set up Special Court in every State capitals to try the offences of terrorist acts 
punishable under the Act. It also provides for disposal of every case of terrorist act under the 
Act within a period of forty - five days of occurrence of such terrorist act and make an order 
in this behalf . It further provides for implementation of the decision of the Special Court by 
the Central Government within ten days of making such order. 

Hence this Bill . 


CHANDRAKANT KHAIRE 


NEW DELHI; 
December 8 , 2017 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


305 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 2 of the Bill provides for setting up Special Court in every State capitals to try 
the offences of terrorist acts. The Bill, therefore , if enacted , will involve expenditure from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees five hundred crore would be 
involved as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees two hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


306 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


BILL No. 23 OF 2018 


A Bill to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children ) Act, 2015. 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of 
India as follows: 


Short title and 1 . (1 ) This Actmay be called the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children ) 
commencement. ( Amendment) Act, 2018 . 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


307 


2. After section 18 of the Juvenile Justice ( Care and Protection of Children ) Act, 2015 , 
the following section shall be inserted , namely : 


Insertion of 
new section 
15A . 


" 18A . Notwithstanding anything in this Act, in case of an offence of murder, 
rape , sedition or terrorist activities alleged to have been committed by a child above 
the age of fourteen years, trial of such child shall be conducted as an adult." . 


Child above 
the age of 
fourteen 
years who 
commits the 
offence of 
murder, rape , 
sedition or 
terrorist 
activities to 
be tried as an 
adult. 


308 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


There is a need of a strict juvenile or child crime justice system in India . From the legal 
point of view , juvenile crime is an illegal act perpetrated by a child below eighteen years of 
age who is presented before a Children s Court for legal action . As per the Juvenile Justice 
(Care and Protection of Children ) Act , 2015 , a child between the age of sixteen to eighteen 
years is required to be tried as an adult for committing any serious or heinous offence subject 
to the provisions of this Act. The rate of child crimes is increasing day by day in Indian 
society . Besides, its nature is getting complex day by day. The reason behind such a 
phenomenon is urbanization and industrialization which has created such an environment 
wherein most of the families have become unsuccessful in controlling their children . Moral 
values are shattering due to rise in personal freedom and excess of competition has forced 
the children to go astray . 

Juveniles are now committing grave and heinous crimes such as rape , murder etc . by 
taking resort to the fact they are juveniles they go scot free and again commit such crimes. 
Themain culprit of Delhi s Nirbhaya case was a juvenile and the person who raped a medical 
girl student of Maulana Azad Medical College of Delhi was a Juvenile. Both these incidents 
are a blot on humanity and both the criminals are free today as they are juveniles and there 
is a chance that they may again be ready to commit such crimes. So such crooked criminals 
should not get away just for the fact that they are juveniles. 

It must also be ensured that Juvenile Justice Act provides benefits to the children 
wherein the methods of trial or grounds for parole are different. Children are just kept under 
observation . Children are thrown into organised crimes by criminals to take benefit from it . 
This misuse of the Act is done by the criminals by using children in committing crimes. The 
misuse of the law will have to be stopped which has been enacted with good intent. 

Even the Supreme Court Bench sought to enquire from the CentralGovernment whether 
the accused involved in such heinous crimes as murder, rape or abduction is allowed to go 
free only because of the fact thathe is yet to attain eighteen years of age . The apex Court also 
observed that there should be a clear distinction between serious and less serious crimes 
perpetrated by the juvenile . At present, Juvenile Justice Board takes action against juveniles 
below eighteen years of age . However, Justice J.S . Verma Committee constituted after the 
gang rape in Delhi in December 2012 rejected the suggestion of decreasing the age of 
juvenile upto sixteen years . 

Involvement of juveniles continuously in heinous crimes is also a significant reason . 
In this context, National Crime Record Bureau data makes it clear that there has been one 
hundred and fifty eight per cent increase in such cases of rapes by minors in Delhi only . It is 
surprising that as far as increase in general crimes by juvenile is concerned it is only thirty 
four per cent. Themore disturbing thing is that their involvement in the incidents of theft and 
dacoit has increased by two hundred per cent. The juveniles involved in these crimes were 
from sixteen to eighteen years of age . Recent data disclose that more than thirty three 
thousand juveniles have been arrested in more than twenty five thousand incidents during 
the year 2012 - 13 . Out ofwhich more than one thousand children were from seven to twelve 
years of age, eleven thousand children were in the age group of twelve to sixteen years and 
rest of the juveniles were in the age group of sixteen to eighteen years . Needless to say that 
today organized crime has taken the shape of an industry due to the ineffective criminal 
justice system . As a matter of fact , a need to enact a separate law to deal with juvenile crimes 
was felt because the United Nations issued a Joint declaration for children rights wherein a 
child up to eighteen years of age was declared as a minor. 

Secret sources reveal that at present a notorious terrorist organisation like Lashkar-e 
Taiba has instructed its fighters to mention their age as below eighteen years if caught by 
security personnel of India . It is certainly a big blot reflecting the failure of Juvenile Justice 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


309 


Act of the country. Besides this , adult criminals connected with organised crimes aremaking 
gross misuse of this law . This is the reason why the Ministry has now concentrated on the 
crimes committed and their nature by juveniles not heeding to the matter of age of the 
Juvenile . The important fact is that children are at present becoming grownups at a very 
tender age because of influence of virtual media and cyber world . It is turning out to be very 
dangerous to provide mobiles and internet facility to the children from a very early age . 

Ifwe do not seriously ponder over these issues, there is every likelihood that organised 
and sexual crimes keep on flourishing. Hence, it is high time to take strict measures against 
juveniles who are committing heinous crimes . 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children ) 
Act, 2015 with a view to provide that every child above the age of fourteen years alleged to 
have committed the offence of murder , sedition , rape and terrorist activities shall be tried as 
an adult and be punished accordingly . 

Hence this Bill. 


CHANDRAKANTKHAIRE 


NEW DELHI; 
December 8 , 2017 . 


310 


310 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Pill 


Bill No. 83 OF 2018 


A Bill to promote awareness and prevent the incidence of thalassemia in newborn 
children with a view to avoid lifelong suffering and hardship and for matters 

connected therewith or incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliamentin the Sixty -ninth Year ofthe Republic of India as follows: 
1. (1) This Actmay be called the Thalassemia Prevention Act, 2018. 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Short title , 
extent, and 
commencement. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


311 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 


Definitions. 


(a ) " appropriate Government" means - 

(i) in relation to the Central Government or any establishment wholly or 
substantially financed by that Government or a Cantonment Board constituted 
under the Cantonments Act, 2006 , the Central Government; 


41 of 2006 . 


( ii ) in relation to a State Government or any establishment, wholly or 
substantially financed by that Government or any local authority other than a 
Cantonment Board , the State Government; and 

( iii) in relation to a Union territory with Legislature, means the Administrator 
of the Union territory appointed by the President under article 239 of the 
Constitution ; 

(6 ) " couple" means the legally married Indian man and woman including marriages 
solemnized under all personal laws; 

(c ) " establishment" includes a Government establishment and private 
establishment; 


( d ) " foetus" means a human organism during the period of its development, 
beginning on the fifty -seventh day following fertilisation or creation (excluding any 
time during which its development has been suspended ) and ending at birth ; 

(e) "Government establishment" means a corporation established by or under a 
Central Act or State Act or an authority or a body owned or controlled or aided by the 
Government or a local authority or a Government company as defined in section 2 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and includes a Department of the Government; 


18 of 2013 . 


(1) " gynaecologist" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Pre 
conception and Pre -natal Diagnostic Techniques ( Prohibition of Sex Selection ) 
Act, 1994 ; 


57 of 1994 . 


(8 ) "medical institution" means any maternity nursing home or hospital offering 
maternity treatment and care ; 

(h ) "prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act ; and 

(i) " thalassemia" means a disease in which a child or an adult becomes anaemic 
because of genetic defect of haemoglobin . 


3 . It shall be the responsibility of the appropriate Government to ensure implementation Appropriate 
of the provisions of this Act. 

Government 
to implement 
the provisions 

of this Act. 
4 . The Central Government shall ,by notification in the Official Gazette , formulate a Formulation 
national policy for the prevention of thalassemia in the country. 

of a national 
policy for 
prevention of 

thalassemia . 
5 . The gynaecologist or the head of the medical institution , who is consulted or Responsibility 
approached by a pregnant woman for maternity treatment and care shall be responsible for 

of the 

gynaecologist 
prevention of birth of a child afflicted with thalassemia major. 

or head of the 
medical 
institution for 
prevention of 
birth of child 
affected with 
thalassemia . 


312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Accountability 
of medical 
institutions 
and 
gynaecologist. 


34 of 1971. 


Issuance of 
Ante -natal 
Health Cards. 


6 . The gynaecologist or the head of the medical institution who is consulted or 
approached by a pregnant woman for maternity treatment and care , shall ensure that 

(a ) every woman who becomes pregnant for the first time shall, as soon as her 
pregnancy is confirmed , be tested for thalassemia carrier or trait; 

(b ) where the pregnant woman is tested positive for thalassemia carrier or trait , 
her husband be advised to undergo a similar test, as soon as may be ; 

(c) where the husband is tested positive for thalassemia carrier or trait , the 
couple stands a risk of carrying a thalassemia major foetus be counselled about 
thalassemia major and its lifelong implications for the unborn child and be referred to 
a Genetics Specialist for a further genemapping study called Family Gene Study (FGS), 
as part of the pre -natal diagnosis ; 

(d ) wherein the foetus is found to be afflicted with thalassemia major in the pre -natal 
diagnosis , the option ofmedical termination of pregnancy, according to the provisions of 
Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 shall be offered to the pregnantwoman . 

7. ( 1) The appropriate Government shall ensure that the gynaecologist or the head of 
the medical institution issue to each individual in the couple , an Ante - natal Health Card 
wherein the thalassemia carrier or trait information , along with cautionary notes for guidance 
in the case of future pregnancies are clearly stated . 

(2 ) In addition to the issuing of Ante -natal Health Card under sub -section ( 1), the 
gynaecologist or the head of the medical institution shall ensure that where the pregnant 
woman has already undergone a test for thalassemia carrier or trait during her earlier pregnancy 
and her husband has also been tested positive for thalassemia carrier or trait , the couple shall 
be counselled about the risk involved in the foetus likely to be thalassemia major whether the 
couple have an Ante -natal Health Card or not: 

Provided that in case when no information is available aboutthe couple s carrier or trait 
status, they shall be subjected to the procedure described under section 6 (as in the case of 
a first pregnancy ). 

8 . The appropriate Government shall initiate, design and set up a strong and effective 
system for Genetic Counselling and diagnostic centres across the country and shall take 
measures to educate the public , especially women , about thalassemia major and its implications 
for the life ofthe newborn , in order to facilitate informed making and to encourage thalassemia 
carrier or trait test at the first pregnancy . 


, 


Appropriate 
Government 
to set up 
Genetic 
Counselling 
and diagnostic 
centres for 
thalassemia . 


H 


9 . The appropriate Government shall be responsible for making available the requisite 
pathological facilities in all medical institutions to carry out thalassemia carrier or trait test, 
family gene studies , pre - natal diagnosis and medical termination of pregnancy where 
sufficient evidence is provided to the effect that the foetus is afflicted with thalassemia 
major. 


Appropriate 
Government 
to make 
available 
requisite 
pathological 
facilities . 
Central 
Government 
to provide 
funds . 
Offences and 
penalties. 


10 . The CentralGovernment shall , after due appropriation made by the Parliamentby 
law on this subject, provide adequate funds to such State Governments which offers to 
implement similar schemes in their respective States . 


11. ( 1) Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any rules made 
thereunder, for which no penalty has been elsewhere provided in this Act, shall be punishable 
with imprisonment for a term which may extend upto three years or with fine which may 
extend upto ten thousand rupees or with both . 

(2) An offence punishable under this Act shall be bailable. 


( 3 ) Where a gynaecologist or the head of the medical institution contravenes any of 
the provisions of this Act or rulesmade thereunder, he shall be punishable with imprisonment 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


313 


for a term which may extend upto three years or with fine which may extend upto fifty 
thousand rupees or with both . 


(4 ) In case it is established that a child afflicted with thalassemia major is born as a 
result of contravention of provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder, the Court trying 
the offence may award a compensatory paymentwhich may extend upto twenty lakh rupees 
in favour of the mother of that child to assist in the lifelong treatment of that child , including 
a bone marrow transplantation to be made by the person convicted of having contravened 
the provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder , or by the appropriate Government as 
may be decided and awarded by the Court. 

12 . Where any offence punishable under this Act or rules made thereunder have been 
committed by a company, every person who , at the time the offence was committed was in 
charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the 
company, as well as the company , shall be deemed guilty of the offence and shall be liable to 
be prosecuted against and punished accordingly. 

13. ( 1 ) No Court shall take cognizance of an offence under this Act except on a 
complaintmade by — 

(a ) the appropriate Government concerned or any officer authorised on this 
matter by the appropriate Government. 


Offences by 
companies. 


Cognizance of 
offences . 


(b ) a person who is directly or indirectly affected by the offence . 

Explanation . For the purpose of this clause " person " includes a social 
organisation . 

(2 ) No Court other than that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a JudicialMagistrate of 
the First Class shall try any offence punishable under this Act . 

(3 ) When a complainthas been made under clause (b ) of sub -section ( 1) of section 14 , 
the Court may , on demand by such person , direct the appropriate Government to make 
available copies of relevant records in its possession to such person . 

14 . ( 1) The gynaecologist or the medical institution who is consulted or approached 
by a pregnantwoman under this Act shall maintain all records , charts , forms, reports, consent 
letters and all other documents required to be maintained under this Act. 


Miscellaneous. 


(2) Every record maintained under sub - section (1) shall be preserved for a period of 
five years or for such period in such manner as may be prescribed . 


(3 ) Every record maintained under sub - section ( 1) shall , at all reasonable times, be 
made available to the appropriate Government or to any other person authorised by the 
appropriate Government in this behalf in such manner as may be prescribed . 


15 . No suit , prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Central or State 
Government or any other officer authorised by the Central or State Government for anything 
which is in good faith , done or intended to be done in pursuance of the provisions of this Act. 


Protection of 
action taken 
in good faith . 


16 . (1 ) In such a case where any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of 
this Act, the Central Governmentmay by order published in the Official Gazette , make such 
provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, as appear to it to be necessary or 
expedient for removing the difficulty . 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


Provided that no order shall be made under this section after expiry of a period of three 
years from the date of commencement of this Act . 


(2 ) Every ordermade under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament and be ratified . 


314 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


17 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette, make rules Power to 

make rules. 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modifications in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rules should not be made , the rules shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under the rule. 

( 3) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power , such 
rules may provide for: 

(a ) the manner in which the gynaecologist or head of the medical institution 
shall keep records of the screening test and other procedures required under the 
provisions of section 8 ; 


(b ) the form in which consent of the pregnant woman has to be obtained under 
section 8 ; 


(c ) the facilities to be provided , equipments and other standards to be maintained 
by the Central and State Governments for facilitating screening, family gene study, 
pre -natal diagnosis and medical termination of pregnancy ; 

( d ) the form in which Ante -natal Health Card showing the thalassemia carrier or 
trait status of the women is to be issued under section 7 ; and 


( e ) any other matters thatmay be required to be prescribed . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


315 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Thalassemia is one of the commonest inherited genetic disorders in our country . One 
in every six hundred and twenty -five pregnancies ends in the birth of a thalassemia major 
child . It is a cruel disease and the children afflicted by it have to undergo painful blood tests 
and blood transfusions every two or three weeks for the rest of their lives , starting six 
months of age . The parents of these children also suffer psychological trauma from watching 
their child undergo repeated needle insertions. Furthermore , the disease entails a grave 
financial implication for the parents , as blood transfusion , filters and other devices, iron 
chelation medicines, etc. which are needed , are very expensive . 

Thalassemia is a disorder of the haemoglobin molecule . Beta thalassemia (the 
commonest of the haemoglobin disorders that are seen in our country ) is caused by a 
mutation in the haemoglobin gene of the parents . In our country, four per cent. of the 
population carries this mutation and such individuals are called thalassemia trait or carriers 
or thalassemia minors. They are asymptomatic and lead normal lives. It is not possible to 
identify who is a carrier without a blood test. 

When two individuals who are both asymptomatic carriers marry and have a pregnancy 
there is a twenty -five per cent. chance that the foetus inherits the mutated thalassemia gene 
from both the parents and thus develops thalassemia major soon after birth . The foetus 
could however inherit one or both normal genes from the parents and be a carrier or absolutely 
normal. The chance of this is seventy - five per cent. 


Since four per cent. of the general population are thalassemia carriers, one in every 
twenty - five per cent. individuals could be a carrier. In somecommunities like Sindhis, Punjabis, 
Gujaratis , Marwaris, etc. the incidence is even higher. Consanguineous marriages within 
their own communities add to the risk . It is reported that about ten to twelve thousand 
children with thalassemia major, are born in our country every year. 

Thalassemia major is preventable andmedical science has the answers, but ignorance 
and social taboos have come in the way of effectively preventing the birth of such children . 
Therefore , there is a need to bring in statutory regulations to put in place an effective 
prevention program . 

Hence this Bill. 


DHARAM VIRA GANDHI 


NEW DELHI; 
November 30 , 2017. 


316 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for formulation of a national policy for prevention of 
thalassemia . Clause 6 provides for accountability of gynaecologist or the head of themedical 
institution for testing thalassemia carrier or trait to a pregnant woman . Clause 7 provides for 
issuance of Ante- natal Health Cards containing information regarding thalassemia carrier or 
trait to a pregnant woman or the couple. Clause 8 provides for setting up of genetic counselling 
and diagnostic centres for thalassemia by the appropriate Government. Clause 9 provides for 
making available requisite pathological facilities in all medical institutions to carry out 
thalassemia carrier or trait test by the appropriate Government. Clause 10 provides that the 
Central Government shall provide adequate funds for State Government for implementing 
similar schemes in their respective States . Clause 14 provides formaintenance of all records, 
charts , forms, reports, consent letters and all other documents of a pregnant woman by the 
gynaecologist or themedical institution . The Bill, therefore , if enacted will involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees fifty crore would be 
involved as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees ten crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 17 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the provisions of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


317 


Bill No . 11 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India 
as follows: 


1 . This Act may be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 


Short title . 


2 . In article 124 , after clause (7 ), the following clauses shall be inserted ,namely : Amendment 

of article 
" (8 ) The Chief Justice of India shall not be eligible for further office either under 124 . 
the Governmentof India or under the Government of any State or in any Public Sector 
Undertaking after he has ceased to hold his office . 

(9 ) A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be eligible for further office either 
under Government of India or under the Government of any State or in any Public 
Sector Undertaking after he has ceased to hold his office ." . 


318 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Independence of judiciary is an essential attribute of rule of law , which is a basic 
feature of the Constitution . Judiciary must be free from all pressure including the pressure 
from executive as well as psychological pressure relating to their appointment after retirement. 
The Judges are required to ensure the independence and impartiality of judiciary by keeping 
them free from any allurement of employment under the Government after their retirement. 
The Constitution nowhere restricts or prohibits retired Judges of the Hon ble Supreme Court 
and the Hon ble High Courts to hold further employment either under the Government of 
India or under any of the State Government. The Constitution , on the other hand specifically 
prohibits the Chairman ofUnion Public Service Commission and its Members , the Chairmen 
and the members of State Public Service Commissions for further employment after their 
retirement, either under the Government of India or under the Government of the State . 
Likewise article 148 ( 4 ) provides that the comptroller and AuditorGeneral shall not be eligible 
for further office either under the Government of India or under the Government of any State 
after he has ceased to hold his office . 

The Hon ble Judges of the Supreme Court , various High Courts , the Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India , the Chairman of Union Public Service Commission , the Chairmen 
andmembers of the State Public Service Commissions are constitutional functionaries and 
they should be kept free from all kinds of allurement of employment under the Government 
after cessation of their respective offices. It is presumed that re -appointment of Judges , after 
cessation of office would have effect of undermining the independence and fairness of 
judiciary. 

In the present scenario , the Judges are getting handsome salaries , other amenities , 
perks and post retirement benefits . The Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Courts are 
adjudicating rights of citizens which have been jeopardized by the Government. The Judges 
are coming in contact with the Government on every step . As such need of the moment is to 
introduce similar provisions in the Constitution for prohibiting the Chief Justice and the 
Judges of the Supreme Court from holding any employment under the Government of India 
or under the Government of State after their retirement. 

Hence this Bill . 


GOPAL CHINAYYA SHETTY 


NEW DELHI; 
December 29 , 2017 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


319 


Bill No. 18 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Special Marriage Act, 1954 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows : 
1 . (1) This Act may be called the Special Marriage (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

Short title and 

commencement. 
( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernment may, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint: 

Provided that different dates may be appointed for different States. 

2 . In the SpecialMarriage Act, 1954 , in section 4 , after clause (c ), the following clause Amendment 
shall be inserted , namely : 

of section 4 . 
" (a ) parents of both the parties to the marriage have given their consent to the 
marriage : 

Provided that in case of absence of the consent of parents of the female , the age of 
the female for the solemnization of the marriage shall be twenty -one years ;" . 


43 of 1954 . 


320 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Our country has traditional values and the children grow up with customs and moral 
values . But, the number of inter-caste marriages by persuading and misguiding the girls in 
the country is increasing day by day. Among these, the number of girls having inter-caste 
marriage between the age of eighteen to twenty -one years is the maximum . The situation gets 
worse when the girls who enter into inter- caste marriage in a frivolousmanner are tortured 
and their life becomes hell. 


The age of eighteen years for girls is such an age when the process ofmental, emotional 
and intellectual development gets pace and the mind does not focus on one thing. Their 
mind are filled with questions and the slightest binding on freedom seems them obstructing 
and force them on undertaking the things right or wrong in their own way only. 

Since marriage is a very important part of the life, it is necessary that if a girl does inter 
caste marriage , the consent of her parents must be taken keeping in view her future life or the 
age stipulated for marriage of a girl which at present is 18 years be made 21 years so that she 
could be ponder over the correctness of inter -caste marriage very efficiently . 

Thus, the Bill seeks to amend the SpecialMarriage Act, 1954 with a view to save the life 
of such innocent girls who enter into inter-caste marriage by persuasion or frivolity. 


Hence this Bill. 


GOPAL CHINAYYA SHETTY 


NEW DELHI; 
December 29 , 2017 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


321 


Bill No. 75 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for housing facility to destitute senior citizens, widows and 

orphan children and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. (1) This Act may be called the Housing Facility for Destitute Senior Citizens, Widows Short title , 
and Orphan Children Act, 2018 . 

extent and 


commencement. 


( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


322 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions . 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in other cases , the Central Government ; 


(b ) “ destitute senior citizen ” means any person who has attained the age of sixty 
years and has no facility for shelter or has no relative to take care of and provide 
shelter to him ; 


(c ) “ Fund ” means the Destitute Senior Citizens, Widows and Orphan Children 
Welfare Fund constituted under section 9 ; 

(d ) “ orphan ” means a child who is below fourteen years of age and has no 
parents or willing and capable legal or natural guardian or other relatives to take care of 


him ; 


( e ) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 

(f) “widow ” means any woman who has not remarried after the death of her 
husband and who does not have any facility for shelter . 


3 . The Central Government shall , as soon as possible , by notification in the Official 
Gazette , frame a national policy for providing housing facilities to the destitute senior citizens , 
widows and orphans. 


National 
Policy for 
housing for 
destitute 
senior citizens, 
widows and 
orphans. 


Establishment 
of residential 
centres . 


4 . (1 ) The appropriate Government shall establish residential centres for the destitute 
senior citizens, widows and orphans. 


( 2 ) Every residential centre shall have the capacity of minimum eighty andmaximum 
two hundred persons to live in at a time. 


(3 ) Every residential centre shall be arranged in such a way to accommodate two 
orphans, one senior citizen and one widow in one unit . 

5 . The appropriate Government shall 


Residential 
centres to 
have proper 
facilities for 
the 
beneficiaries. 


( a ) provide housing , food , water, medicine , security and the minimum resources 
necessary to lead a balanced and healthy life in every residential centre ; 

(b ) ensure utilization of Government schemes running in the area for necessary 
resources , education , health and food in every residential centre ; 


the 


(c ) ensure easy access to every eligible person to reside in 
residential centre ; 


(d ) make efforts to develop mutually dependent relation for residents living in 
residential centre to lead a mutually humanitarian , emotional, safe and happy life; 


and 


Constitution 
of 
Management 
Committee . 


(e ) formulate policy for setting up domestic production unit for employment 
generation in every residential centre. 

6 . (1 ) The appropriate Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazzette , 
constitute a Managing Committee to monitor, supervise and coordinate the functioning of 
the residential centres established under section 4 . 


(2 ) The Management Committee shall consist of — 


(i) the Chairperson of the local body, ex - officio, Chairperson ; 
( ii ) a public servant, ex -officio member; 
( iii) a senior -most senior citizen from the residential centre, member ; 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


323 


( iv ) an oldest widow from the residential centre , member; and 


(v ) an eminentsocial worker , member ; 
to be nominated by the appropriate Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(3) The appropriate Government shall appoint such number of staff to the residential 
centres as may be prescribed , from time to time. 

( 4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other term and conditions of service 
of Chairperson , members other than ex -officio and staff of the Managing Committee 
and the procedure to be followed in the discharge of its functions shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 


7 . It shall be the duty of the appropriate Government to implement the national policy 
formulated under section 3 . 


Implementation 
of the policy 
by the 
appropriate 
Government. 


8 . (1) The CentralGovernment shall, as soon as may be, by notification in the Official 
Gazette , constitute a Fund to be known as the Destitute Senior Citizens, Widows and Orphan 
Children Welfare Fund for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) The CentralGovernment and the State Governments shall contribute to the Fund in 
such ratio as may be prescribed . 

(3 ) The Fund shall be utilized for providing facilities to the residents of residential 
centres. 


Constitution 
of Destitute 
Senior 
Citizens, 
Widows and 
Orphan 
Children 
Welfare Fund . 


9 . The appropriate Government shall review the quality and progress of residential Appropriate 
centres established under section 4 in such manner asmay be prescribed . 

Government 
to review the 
quality and 
progress of 
residential 

centres. 
10 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law Central 
in this behalf, provide adequate funds for the implementation of the provisions of the Act. Government 

to provide 
requisite funds. 


11. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
law for the time being in force regulating any of the matters dealt with in this Act. 


Act not in 
derogation of 
any other law . 


12 . (1) The appropriate Governmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette,make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


Power to 
make rules . 


(2 ) Every rule made under this Actby the CentralGovernment shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total 
period of thirty days , which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive 
sessions, and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 
both the Houses agree that the rule should not bemade, the rule shall thereafter have effect 
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 


(3 ) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before the State Legislature . 


324 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


During the last one decade the old age population in India has risen by 39 .3 per cent. 
This segment of population is expected to rise by 45 - 50 per cent in the coming decades. 
Because of continuous replacing of joint families by nuclear families due to ongoing trend 
and continuous migration the old aged persons have to suffer from several problems 
including loneliness. There are more than a thousand old age homes but their situations 
and problemscould not be improved and sorted out permanently . In similar ways , there are 
a large number ofwidows in the country who face discrimination not only on family front 
but on social front also . In a number of cases, they do not have shelter and other necessary 
assistance to lead a dignified life . Now - a- days there is a need to create a total and conducive 
environment whereby they could spend rest of their life in a productive and happy manner. 
In addition to this, there is a large section of population of orphan kids who do nothave 
any shelter and are living a destitute life .Most of these kids are engaged as child labour or 
have fallen prey to drug addiction , some are addicted to drugs , some are involved in flesh 
trade or illegal trafficking . 

There is need to provide an integrated provision in this regard so that these three 
socially neglected classes could be broughtunder one roof where these three can line as one 
family. Widow shall play role ofmother to orphan kids and neglected old age person play a 
role of guardian to these two. By this , a familial environmentwill be provided for these three 
classes . 

The Bill seeks to establish residential centres for destitute senior citizens,widows and 
orphans along with shelter, food , clothes and other basic facilities of life to lead a dignified 
humanitarian , emotional,safe and happy life based on mutually supported relation. The most 
important objective behind the establishment of the centre is that the widow house , senior 
citizen house and orphanage established with different methods in the country shall be 
brought under one roof. 

Hence this Bill . 


DHANANJAY B . MAHADIK 


NEW DELHI; 
February 8 , 2018 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


325 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for establishment of the residential centres all over the 
country for use of the destitute senior citizens, widows and orphans. Clause 5 provides that 
appropriate Government shall ensure residential centres to have proper basic facilities to the 
beneficiaries. Clause 6 provides for constitution of Management Committee to monitor, 
supervise and coordinate the functioning of the residential centres . Clause 8 provides for 
constitution of a Destitute Senior Citizens, Widows and Orphan Children Welfare Fund . 
Clause 10 provides that Central Government shall provide adequate funds for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. The Bill , therefore , if enacted , will involve expenditure from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees five hundred crore may 
involve as recurring expenditure per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non- recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 12 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


326 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 91 OF 2018 


Short title , 
extent and 
commence 
ment. 


A Bill to provide for setting up of a mechanism to maintain , preserve and protect the 
identified and unidentified ancient, historical or archaeological sites, remains, 
monuments, modules and carvings in the country and for matters 

connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. ( 1) This Actmay be called the HistoricalHeritage Conservation Act, 2018 . 
( 2) It extends to whole of India. 
(3 ) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 
2 . ( 1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases , the Central Government; 


Definitions. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


327 


(b ) “ historical or archaeological site” means areas where ruins or remains of 
historical or archaeological importance are available or believed to be available for 
more than hundred years including such geographical sites which have importance in 
Indian Civilization or in any period of the history of national freedom movement and 
also includes 


(i) such portion of land adjoining the site of an ancientmonument as may 
be required for fencing or covering in or otherwise preserving such site; and 


( ii ) the means of access to , and convenient inspection of, historical or 
archaeological sites . 

(c) “ archaeological remains ” includes the following which have been in existence 
for not less than one hundred years — 


(i) any coin , module, handwritten document, relics or other artifacts or 
works of artisan ; 


( ii) any material or article which is associated with a construction or cave ; 


( iii) anymaterial or article which is a witness ofscience, art , craftsmanship , 
literature , religion , tradition , moral ethics or politics of previous eras ; 


(iv) any material or article of historical importance ; and 


(v ) any material or article whose archaeological importance fulfills the 
purposes of this Act and so declared through a notification in the OfficialGazette . 


(d ) “ historical monuments” means any structure, memorial , stupa, graveyard , 
cave , stone modules, embossed write up ormonoliths of historical, archaeological or 
artistic interest which have been in existence for not less than one hundred years 
including such building , fort,memorials which have importance in Indian Civilization 
or in any period of the history of national freedom movement and also includes 


(i) remains of an ancientmonument; 


( ii ) site of an ancientmonument; 


( iii) such portion of land adjoining the site of an ancientmonument as may 
be required for fencing or covering in or otherwise preserving such monument; 
and 


( iv ) the means of access to , and convenient inspection of, an ancient 
monument. 


(e) “ historical heritage” includes historical or archaeological site and remains, 
antiquities and historical monument of significant historical importance relating to 
Indian culture , civilization or national freedom movement; 


(f) “ non - governmental organisation " means an organisation , institution , 
educational centre or research institution engaged in the field of preservation , protection 
and maintenance of historical heritage for a period of not less than three years with a 
good track record of its activities; and 

(g ) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 

(2 ) The words and expressions used in this Act but not defined herein and 
defined in the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in that Act . 


24 of 1958 . 


328 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Setting up of 
a mechanism 
to maintain , 
preserve and 
protect 
historical 
heritages . 


3. ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall, by notification in the OfficialGazette , set up a 
mechanism to maintain , preserve and protect historical heritage in all the States of the 
country. 
(2 ) Themechanism set up under sub -section (1) shall incorporate , — 

( a ) entrusting the responsibility of maintaining, preserving and protecting 
historical heritage which have been declared as a symbol of national importance or 
otherwise in any State of the country to an established non - governmental organisation ; 

(b ) criteria for the selection of non -governmental organisations for entrusting 
the work of preservation of historical heritage ; 

(c) constitution of body at national level to monitor and regulate the functioning 
of non - governmental organisations and obtain annual or regular reports from such 
organizations; 

( d ) providing adequate financial assistance to the non - governmental 
organisations entrusted with the task of preservation of historical heritage under this 
Act on the recommendation of body constituted under clause ( c); 

(e ) entrusting responsibility on the non - governmental organisations responsibile 
formaintenance , preservation and protection of historicalheritage to create awareness 
among people about the importance of preservation and protection of historical 
heritage; 

(f) provision of appropriate legal action against the non - governmental 
organisations involved in irregularities ; 

(g ) making the Government department related to maintenance of historical 
heritages as the nodal agency to implement the mechanism set up under sub- section (1 ) 
and to regulate and control the body constituted under clause (c ); 

(h ) provision to empower the non - governmental organisations to collectminimum 
fee from the visitors after obtaining permission thereof from the body constituted 
under clause (c ); and 

(i) entrusting responsibility of excavation , maintenance and supervision of other 
heritages at local level to the non - governmental organisations . 

4 . (1) It shall be the duty of the duty of the appropriate Government to ensure effective 
implementation of the provisions of this Act. 

(2) The appropriate Government shall monitor and review , from time to time, the 
functioning of non - governmental organisations engaged in preservation and protection of 
historicalheritage in such manner, as may be prescribed . 

5 . The CentralGovernment shall ,after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in 
this behalf , provide adequate funds to the State Governments for carrying out the provisions 
of this Act. 


Implementation 
of the 
provisions of 
the Act. 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
adequate 
funds. 


Penalty . 


Power to 
make rules. 


6 . If any non - governmental organisation indulges in any act which is or is likely to be 
detrimental to the preservation and protection of any historical heritage, the appropriate 
Governmentmay initiate such action against such organisation as it may deem fit including 
imposition of fine and cancellation of recognition . 

7 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay , by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect , as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


329 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India is a unique Nation in terms of its culture and heritage where the live examples of 
its thousands year old culture and civilization still exists in the form of various historical 
heritage monuments , sites and ruins etc . These are the proof of our golden and glorious 
history which have an importance and respect not only for Indians but for foreign nationals 
as well. But it s very unfortunate that some of the heritagemonuments neither earmarked or 
identified norbeingmaintained appropriately.Many historical building are losing their original 
shapes due to renovation and construction being done in their adjacent buildings. Proper 
monitoring , protection and security is very important. The experience in this regard is not 
very positive so far. Therefore , a policy is required to be framed at community level in this 
regard . Apart from this , there is need to make efforts in this regard by entrusting non 
government organizations for protection of heritage buildings . We may get its effective 
benefit if the responsibility of better management, regulation and monitoring system is 
handed over to the local people where the heritage is situated . 


Hence this Bill . 


DHANANJAYB.MAHADIK 


New DELHI; 
February 13 , 2018 . 


330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the setting up of a mechanism for maintenance , 
preservation and protection of historical heritage in the country . It also provides for the 
constitution of body at national level to monitor and regulate the functioning of non 
governmental organisations . It further provides for adequate financial assistance to the 
Non -governmental organizations for carrying out the provisions of the Act. Clause 5 provides 
for adequate funds to the State Governments for carrying out the provision of the Act. The 
Bill , therefore, if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . At 
this stage , it is difficult to give an exact estimate of the expenditure to be incurred on it . 
However, it is estimated that a recurring expenditure of aboutrupees one thousand crore per 
annum will be incurred from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

No non -recurring expenditure is likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 7 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matter of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


331 


Bill No . 261 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for compulsory career counselling and guidance to the students at 
school level in order to help them chart a proper career path and choose their 

professions accordingly and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Compulsory Career Guidance Act, 2017 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India. 


(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


332 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definition . 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State , and in all other cases, the CentralGovernment; 

(6 ) "National Career Service " means the National Career Service (NCS ) Project, 
Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment; 


( c ) " National Review Committee " means the National Review Committee 
constituted under section 7 ; 


( d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

(e ) " stream " means a course of study or discipline chosen by a student on 
completion of his secondary or higher secondary grade Board Exams; 


(1) " technical education " shall have the same meaning assigned to it in the All 
India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987 ; and 


(g ) " vocational training " means education and training which helps to train 
people with skills and knowledge that is required in a specific field , particularly in the 
labourmarket. 

3. It shall be the responsibility of the appropriate Government to provide compulsory Compulsory 
career counselling to the students in such manner as may be prescribed . 

Career 
Counselling to 
students. 


4 . For the purposes of section 3 , the appropriate Government, with the assistance of Appropriate 
the National Career Service shall — 

Government 

to conduct 
( a ) conduct career counselling and guidance sessions for every student, six Compulsory 
months prior to the secondary and higher secondary grade Board exams; 

Career 

Counselling 
(b ) ensure that career counselling guidance sessions are conducted by trained for all students 

before 
and qualified professionals; 

secondary or 
(c ) ensure that students are well informed about the subjects and the combination 

higher 

secondary 
thereof in the stream ; 

grade Board 
(d) provide students a complete and comprehensive idea of the scope and jobs 

exams. 
that may be available to them after choosing their respective stream ; 

(e ) ensure that students are well informed about the prospects and merits of 
vocational training and technical education ; 

(f) take essential steps for improvement in studies of weak students ; 

(8 ) grant scholarship to the students belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the 
Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes along with the students , whose parents 
are living below poverty line to pursue higher education ; 

(h ) take available steps computer based training; and 

(i) undertake such other functions as it deem necessary for carrying out the 
purposes of this Act. 

5 . ( 1) The National Career Service shall submit an annual report to the Central Annual report. 
Government mentioning the number of sessions conducted under section 4 along with the 
name of the schools and other detail in such manner as may be prescribed . 


( 2 ) The CentralGovernment shall cause the report to be laid before both the Houses 
of Parliament. 


6 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall ,by notification in the OfficialGazette, constitute Constitution 
a National Review Committee to evaluate the work of the National Career Service in such of National 

Review 
manner as may be prescribed . 

Committee . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


333 


(2 ) The National Review Committee shall consist of a Chairperson and such number 
of experts in the field of employment and training , retired teachers and principals as 
members to be appointed by the appropriate Government in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 

( 3) The salary and allowances payable to , and other terms and conditions of service 
of the Chairperson and other experts of the National Review Committee shall be such as 

may be prescribed . 
Central 

7 . The Central Government shall , after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in 
Government to this behalf , provide requisite funds to the State Government for carrying out the purpose of 
provide funds . 

this Act. 
Act not in 

8 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
derogation of law for the time being in force regulating any of the matters dealt with in this Act. 
other law . 
Power to 

9. (1) The CentralGovernment may, by notification ,make rules to carryout the purpose 
make rules. of this Act. 


( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or successive sessions aforesaid 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the case may be ; so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
History is said to be the greatest teacher of all time and if we were to learn from our 
past, then we can clearly see the fact that nations have been built and destroyed by the 
power of the youth . Our country is pushing its boundaries to move ahead and stand 
equally with the developed countries of the globe, but it has been struggling in reaching its 
goal as it fails to mobilize and use its strength in the right direction , the strength being the 
youth of this great nation . 

Our country is plagued by the epidemic of unemployment and poverty as most of the 
students are unsure about their career goals and blindly end up following courses that bear 
no results for them . The General Enrollment Ratio (GER ) in India drops in the levelof higher 
education because most of the students drop out and wish to start working. These students 
must be informed about the merits of vocational and technical education , so that they can 
plan their future and move their career graph forward ,instead ofbeing confused and uncertain , 
as employment is the ultimate goal for most of them . 


Education fails to be priority as most of the population is concerned with feeding 
themselves and their families. This Bill would help such students to identify their talents 
and would help them to focus their attention on skill development, thereby ensuring that 
they have a career even if they do not focus on formal higher education. 

Every child needs to identify their true potential and every youth of this nation 
deserves to be employed in their relevant sector, and the positive change in that direction 
has to be made from the school level itself. 


Hence this Bill. 


R . DHRUVANARAYANA 


NEW DELHI; 
November 29 , 2017 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


335 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides that appropriate Government shall provide career 
counselling to all students . Clause 4 empowers the appropriate Government with the assistance 
of National Career Service to conduct the career counselling sessions in the schools. Clause 5 
provides for the constitution of the National Review Committee for carrying out the purposes 
of the Bill. It also provides for grants and scholarships to students belonging to poor 
economic backgrounds. Clause 7 provides for Central Government to provide adequate 
funds to the State Government. The Bill, therefore, if enacted , would involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure to 
the tune of rupees seven crore would be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees eleven crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Governmentto make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


336 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 113 OF 2018 


Short title and 
extent. 


A Bill to provide for the constitution of the National Poverty Alleviation Fund and for 

matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. ( 1) This Act may be called the National Poverty Alleviation Fund Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
2 . In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " absolute poverty " means the condition of the household below the food 
threshold level; 

(b ) " basic sectors" means the disadvantaged sectors including farmers, artisans , 
workers in the formal sector and migrant workers, workers in the informal sector, women , 
persons with disabilities, senior citizens , victims of calamities and disasters, youth and 
students , children and urban poor; 


Definitions. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


337 


(c ) " Fund " means the National Poverty Alleviation Fund constituted under 
section 3 ; 


21 of 1860. 


( d ) " human development index " means themeasure of performance of a country 
based on three outcomes of development namely , the state of health (measured by life 
expectancy at birth ), the level of knowledge and skill (measured by a weighted average 
of adult literacy and enrollment rates ) and the level of real income per capita , adjusted 
for poverty considerations as social indicators of the citizen s ability to lead a long and 
healthy life , to acquire knowledge and skills , and to have access to the resources 
needed to afford a decent standard of living highlihting ; 

(e ) " non -Governmental organizations" means any organization registered under 
Societies Registration Act, 1860 focused on the upliftment of the basic sectors of 
society by providing advocacy, training , community organizing , research , access to 
resources, and other similar activities ; 
(A) " poor person " means a person or a group of persons, - 

(i) living below the national or regional poverty line prescribed by the 
Central Government or the State Governments concerned , as the case may be , as 
per necessity, from time to time; 

( ii )marked backward on thebasis of human development index ; and 

( iii ) excluded from the national development process on the grounds of 
particular gender or social group ; 

(8) " poverty alleviation " means the reduction of absolute poverty and relative 
poverty ; 

(h ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 
(i) " relative poverty " means the gap between the rich and the poor; 

(j) " self-help groups " means informal associations of people who choose to 
come together to find ways to improve their living conditions; 

(k ) " social mobilization " means the process to eradicate poverty of particular 
group or community by increasing awareness and to enable them to participate in 
decision making process in organized or collective way and to build up their skill and 
capacity ; 

(1) " urban poor" means individuals or families residing in urban centers and 
urbanizing areas whose income or combined household income falls below the poverty 
threshold and/ or cannot afford in a sustained manner to provide their minimum basic 
needs of food , health , education , housing and other essential amenities of life ; 

( m ) " workers in the formal sector" means workers in registered business 
enterprises who sell their services in exchange for wages and other forms of 
compensation ; 

(n ) "workers in the informal sector" means poor individuals who operate 
businesses that are very small in scale and are not registered with any national 
government agency, and to the workers in such enterprises who sell their services in 
exchange for subsistence level wages or other forms of compensation ; and 

(0 ) " youth " means any person who has attained the age of fifteen years but has 
not attained the age of twenty -nine years. 

3 . ( 1 ) The Central Government shall , by notification in the OfficialGazette, constitute Constitution 
a Fund to be known as the National Poverty Alleviation Fund for carrying out the purposes of the 
of this Act . 

National 

Poverty 
( 2 ) The Central Government and the State Governments shall contribute to the Fund in Alleviation 
such proportion as may be prescribed . 

Fund . 
( 3) Such other sums as may be received by way of donation , contribution or assistance 
or otherwise shall also be credited to the Fund . 


338 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


4 . (1) The Central Government shall set up a National Poverty Alleviation Board for 
the purpose of administering the Fund . 


Constitution 
of the 
National 
Poverty 
Alleviation 
Board for 
administering 
the Fund . 


(2 ) The Board shall consist of — 


(i) a Chairperson , to be appointed by the Central Government; 


(ii) one representative each of the Union Ministries of Agriculture, Labour, 
Social Justice and Empowerment, Rural Development, Women and Child Development 
and Finance ; 


(iii) one representative of the NITI Aayog ; 
( iv) one representative of every State Government; 


(v ) three members representing the non -Governmental organisations, 
self - help groups and Labour Unions to be appointed by the Central Government in 
such manner as may be prescribed ; 


(vi) the Secretary of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs who 
shall be ex -officio Secretary to the Board ; 


( 3 ) The CentralGovernment shall provide to the Board such number of officers and 
staff as may be required for its efficient functioning . 


(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other termsand conditions of service 
of Chairperson , members, officers and staff of the Board shall be such asmay be prescribed . 

5 . ( 1) The Board shall formulate policies and guidelines regarding welfare of the poor 
person , household or community . 


Duties of the 
Board . 


( 2) The Board shall utilize the Fund for the following purposes: 


(i) income generation , skill development, employment creation and production 
growth in different sectors such as agriculture, livestock , cottage and small industry 
based on local resources and raw materials; 


( ii ) improving primary health and literacy ; 


( iii ) imparting technical education , providing employment training for youth ; 

(iv) providing small irrigation , facilities of drinking water, sanitation , rural road , 
rural energy and environment to render support for poverty alleviation as per 
necessity; and 

(v ) imparting training , organising seminar and field visit to build up the 
capacity of the person , household , community institution and staffs involved 
through the medium of social mobilization for conducting poverty alleviation 
programme. 


Survey of 
poor persons . 


6 . (1 ) Every State Government and the Union territory Administration , as the case 
may be , shall conduct a district -wise survey, in such manner and with such details of all 
poor persons , household or community within their respective jurisdictions and cause the 
same to be published in such manner and form , as may be prescribed . 


( 2 ) Any complaint or objection relating to inclusion or omission of name of any poor 
person , household or community shall be addressed to the District Magistrate concerned 
who shall, after due inquiry , decide upon the rectification of the records. 


7 . (1 ) The Central Governmentmay , by notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


339 


Power to 
make rules. 


for carrying out the purposes of the Act. 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such 
rules may provide for, — 

(a ) themanner in which the Fund may be applied ; 
(b ) the conditions governing the grant of loans or subsidy ; 


(c ) the conditions governing grant- in -aid ; 


(d ) the standard of welfare measures and facilities to be provided out of the Fund ; 

( 3) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session , for a totalperiod of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect , as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


340 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Poverty refers to a situation when people are deprived of the basic necessities of life . 
It is often characterized by inadequacy of food , shelter and clothes. In other words, poverty 
refers to a state of privation where there is a lack of essential needs for subsistence .Many 
people in India do not get two square meals a day . They do nothave good dwelling units to 
live in . Their children do not get proper basic education . 

Poverty is a widespread condition in India. Since Independence, poverty has been a 
concern of every successive Government. The percentage of persons below the Poverty 
Line in 2011 - 12 has been estimated as 25 . 7 per cent, in rural areas and 13 .7 per cent, in urban 
areas . India is home to twenty two per cent, of the world s poor persons. Two hundred and 
sixty million people in the country do not have income to access a consumption basket. 
Eradication of poverty would ensure a sustainable and inclusive growth of economy and 
society . 

It is necessary to uplift economic and social status of the poor persons , household or 
community through social mobilization to ensure their access to the basic services and 
facilities and to enable them to utilize it. There is also a need to build up their capacity so that 
they can exercise their right and actively participate in the decision making process. The 
need is also to do everything possible and within our limits to alleviate poverty from our 
country. Reduction of poverty in India is vital for the attainment of international goals . 

It is imperative to establish a Fund for funding and implementation of various 
programmes related to poverty alleviation through active participation of poor and backward 
class of society and by providing grant and necessary assistance to the institutions involved 
in the activities for poverty alleviation . 


Hence this Bill. 


BOORA NARSAIAH GOUD 


NEW DELHI; 
March 27 , 2018 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


341 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of a National Poverty Alleviation 
Fund to which the Central and State Governments shall contribute funds in such proportion 
as may be prescribed . Clause 4 provides for the constitution of a Board to administer the 
Fund . Clause 5 provides for the utilisation of Fund for income generation , skill development, 
promotion of literacy etc . Clause 6 provides for conducting of district-wise survey of all the 
poor persons, households or community covered under poverty alleviation . The expenditure 
relating to States shall be borne out of the Consolidated Funds of the respective States . 
However, the expenditure in respect ofUnion territories shall be borne out of the Consolidated 
Fund of India . The Bill , therefore, if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure of about rupees twenty 
thousand crore will be involved . 


A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees twenty - five thousand crore is also likely 
to be involved. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 7 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


342 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 109 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for reservation of vacancies in posts and services in establishments in 

favour of economically backward farmers and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1 . ( 1) This Actmay be called the Reservation of Vacancies in Posts and Services for 
Economically Backward Farmers Act, 2018 . 


( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by 
notification in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


343 


Definitions . 


2 . In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) " establishment" means an establishment which is owned , established , 
controlled ,managed or financed by the Central Government and includes 

(i) a Ministry or department or subordinate office or attached office of the 
Central Government; 

( ii ) a public sector undertaking or statutory authority constituted under 
any Central Act; 

(iii) a corporation in which not less than fifty -one per cent of the paid -up 
share capital is held by the Central Government; 

(iv ) a Government company as defined under clause (45 ) of section 2 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 ; 


(v ) an autonomous body, organisation or institution receiving grant or aid 
from the Consolidated Fund of India ; 


(vi) a university established by a Central Act and its affiliated colleges, 
including medical and engineering colleges and institutions ; 

( vii ) a primary or secondary school or any other educational institution , 
which is wholly owned by the Government or receives grant or aid from the 
Government; 


(b ) " economically backward farmer" means a farmer whose annual income does 
not exceed rupees five lakhs per annum , occupying land as owner, tenant or share 
cropper measuring less than or equal to two hectares, not covered under any of the 
scheme of reservation and who does not belong to the Scheduled Castes , the Scheduled 
Tribes or the Other Backward Classes ; and 


(c ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3 . (1 ) There shall be reserved such percentage of posts , not below five per cent. of Reservation 
total posts in every establishment, for economically backward farmers for appointment in of posts in 

establishments 
civil services by direct recruitment. 

for 
( 2 ) The vacancies reserved for the economically backward farmers under 

economically 

backward 
sub -section ( 1) shall be filled in such manner as may be prescribed . 

farmers . 
( 3) The vacancies reserved for economically backward farmers during a calendar year 
and not filled in that year shall be carried forward to the next calendar year. 


4 . Every appointing authority shall maintain such documents and records and furnish Maintenance 
every year a report to the CentralGovernment on the appointments by direct recruitment of of documents 

and records 
economically backward farmers , in such manner and at such time, asmay be prescribed . 

and furnishing 
of reports to 
appointing 
authority . 


5 . If any difficulty arises in giving effort to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may , by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions, not remove 

difficulty . 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for 
removing the difficult : 

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of three years 
from the date of commencement of this Act . 

6 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Overriding 
any other law for the time being in force or any judgment, decree , order or direction of a court effect of the 

Act. 
to the contrary regarding ceiling on reservation . 


344 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Power to 
make rules. 


7 . (1) The CentralGovernment may, by notification in the OfficialGazette,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of the Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a totalperiod of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


345 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The agriculture sector is characterised by instability in incomes because of various 
types of risks involved in production , market and prices. According to the Agriculture Census, 
the total number of operational holdings in India numbered 138.35 million with an average 
size of 1. 15 hectares. Of the total holdings , eighty - five per cent. are in marginal and small farm 
categories of less than two hectares. These small farmers, though operating only on 
forty - four per cent. of land under cultivation , are themain providers of food and nutritional 
security to the nation . The estimates indicate that small and marginal farmers may account 
for more than ninety - one per cent. of farm holdings by the year 2030 . The monsoons have 
become increasingly erratic and there is no assured water for irrigation . Agrarian debts are 
increasing ,while income is fading . Farmers are committing suicide. 

Prominent agrarian communities , such as the Jats in Haryana, Patels in Gujarat,Gujjars 
in Rajasthan and Marathas in Maharashtra have been strongly campaigning for reservation 
in the light of deteriorating financial conditions. 

Therefore, farmers , irrespective of their caste and religion , should be given reservation 
in posts and services like the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Other Backward 
classes. 


Hence this Bill. 


BOORANARSAIAH GOUD 


New DELHI; 
March 27, 2018 . 


346 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 7 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


347 


347 


Bill No. 114 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Representation of the People Act , 1951. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Representation of the People (Amendment) Short title and 
Act, 2018 . 

commencement. 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may , 
by notification in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


348 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Insertion of 
new section 
29AA . 
De- registration 
of political 
party by the 
Election 
Commission . 


2. After section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the following 43 of 1951. 
section shall be inserted , namely : 

“ 29AA . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law , 
bye -law , rule or order for the timebeing in force, if a politicalparty violates the model 
code of conduct by broadcasting conspiracy theories, fake news, sponsored 
disinformation campaigns, illegalpsychographics ormicro -targeting by big data, data 
theft, data mining or analytics on social media platformswith an intent to influence the 
elections, the Election Commission shall de-register or withdraw recognition of such 
political party : 

Provided that prior to de -registration or withdrawal of recognition , the political 
party concerned shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard .” . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


349 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


There are increasing concerns that social media is undermining democracy by 
broadcasting conspiracy theories, fake news and sponsored disinformation campaigns. In a 
data - intensive society , winning an election might have less to do , with a candidate , political 
party or platform and more to do with buying and selling voters data to hack democracy . 
Internet companies increasingly using data techniques to build detailed psychological profiles 
about voters that can be leveraged to deliver political advertisements and propaganda . 

Political parties are hiring private firms to map voter constituencies, tailor political 
messaging and shape electoral outcomes through data - driven profiling . Firms such as 
Cambridge Analytica have already worked with politicians in countries such as the United 
Kingdom , the United States of America and Kenya to monitor, suppress and even deliver 
outright lies to voters. The strategic combination of big data analytics with computational 
propaganda and disinformation can distort political processes , spread skepticism and distrust, 
and interfere with a citizen s ability to make sound political decisions. But powerful political 
parties are increasingly leveraging big data to manufacture consensus, manipulate public 
opinion and subvert democratic processes . 

We are dangerously unprepared to confront challenges at the intersection of individual 
privacy, social-media transparency and data-driven campaigning. Currently , no legislation 
covers the activity of political parties with respect to voter data. The Election Commission 
(EC ) has not take up this issue of data protection for regulatory scrutiny. The EC has in the 
past issued guidelines to protect election integrity and restrained exit polls and also required 
candidates to disclose socialmedia handles. However,much more needs to be done. 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the Representation of the People Act, 1951 with a 
view to empower the Election Commission to deregister a political party found violating the 
model code of conduct by broadcasting conspiracy theories, fake news, sponsored 
disinformation campaigns , illegal psychographics and micro - targeting by big data , data 
theft,mining or analytics on social media platforms with an intent to influence the elections. 

Hence this Bill . 


BOORA NARSAIAH GOUD 


NEW DELHI; 
March 28 , 2018 . 


350 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 209 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title. 


1. This Actmay be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2017 . 


Amendment of 
article 124 . 


2 . In article 124 of the Constitution , in clause (2 ), for the words " sixty -five years" , the 
words " seventy years " shall be substituted . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


351 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Clause (2 ) of article 124 of the Constitution of India allows every Judge of the 
Supreme Court to hold office until he attains the age of sixty -five years. The age of 
retirementof Supreme Court Judges, which was fixed at sixty -two years in the beginning, was 
enhanced to sixty-five years by the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act , 1963. Since 
then , no revision has taken place in this regard . 

The Department-Related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public 
Grievances, Law and Justice , in its 39th Report dated the 29th April, 2010 , has recommended 
to raise the retirement age of the Judges of the High Courts from sixty -two to sixty -five . 
Hence , in view of this it is expedient and necessary to enhance the age of Supreme Court 
Judges from sixty - five years to seventy years . Further, most of the reasons adduced by the 
Fifth Central Pay Commission in support of its recommendation for increasing the age of 
retirement of the Central Government employees, such as global practices, increase in life 
expectancy , improved health standards, need for utilization of experience and wisdom of 
senior employees, etc .,would also apply to the Judges. Besides this , after their retirement the 
Judges are being appointed by Government in various Tribunals , Appellate Tribunals , etc . 
which is antithesis and not in consonance as well as spirit of preamble to Constitution of 
India. The increase in age of retirementwill altogether put a check on the re-employment of 
the Judges of the Supreme Court after retirement. 


Independence of judiciary is an essential attribute of rule of law , which is one of the 
basic features of the Constitution . Judiciary must be free from all pressures including the 
pressures from executive as well as psychological pressure on the Judges related to their 
future after retirement. The Judges are required to ensure the independence and impartiality 
of judiciary by keeping themselves free from any allurement of employment under the 
Government after their retirement. 


The Constitution specifically prohibits the Chairman of Union Public Service 
Commission and its Members, the Chairman of State Public Service Commission and its 
Members for further employment either under the Government of India or under the 
Government of any State . The Constitution on the other hand nowhere restricts or prohibits 
retired Chief Justice and Judges of the High Courts to hold further employment either under 
the Government of India or under any of the State Governments . 


Article 148 (4) provides that the Comptroller and Auditor General shall not be eligible 
for further office either under the Government of India or under the Government of any State 
after he has ceased to hold his office . 


The Chief Justice and Judges of the various High Courts, the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India , the Chairman of Union Public Service Commission , the Chairman of the 
State Public Service Commission and the Members of these Commissions are constitutional 
functionaries and they should be kept free from all kinds of allurement of employment under 
the Government after cessation of their office. It is presumed that reappointment of Judges 
would have effect of undermining the independence and fairness of judiciary . 

The Constitution prohibits the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, the Chairman , 
Public Service Commission and its members from getting employment after cessation of their 
office , however, no such bar is there with regard to the Chief Justice and the Judges of the 
SupremeCourt . 


In view of the present state of vacancies of Judges in the Supreme Court, it is 
extremely difficult to clear the heavy pendency of cases in the Supreme Court. Increasing the 
age of retirement by five more years would restrict occurrence of new vacancies on account 
of superannuation for the next five years during which time the existing backlog in vacancies 
could be cleared . This would have a clear impact on reduction of pendency of cases in the 
Supreme Court. 


352 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ Part II — 


It is , therefore , proposed to increase the age of retirement of the Judges of Supreme 
Court from sixty -five years to seventy years . 


MEENAKASHI LEKHI 


NEW DELHI; 
November 23 , 2016 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


353 


Bill No . 211 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. This Actmay be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act , 2017. 
2 . After article 324 of the Constitution ,the following article shall be inserted , namely : - 


Short title . 


Insertion of 
new article 
324A . 


“ 324A .Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution , the Election Commission Election 
shall, as far as possible , endeavour to conduct elections to the House of the People Commission 
and to the Legislative Assemblies of all States simultaneously .” . 

to Conduct 
elections to 
the House of 
the People 
and 
Legislative 
Assemblies of 
all States 
simultaneously. 


354 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


At present, general elections of Lok Sabha and State Legislative Assemblies are being 
held in different years and , in many cases , even at different periods of the same year. The 
tenure ofboth Lok Sabha and the State Legislative Assemblies have been fixed at five years 
by the Constitution . 

Presently, the cost of holding elections for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assemblies of 
States and Union territories has been pegged at rupees four thousand and five hundred 
crores by the Election Commission . 

Suggestions are being received from certain quarters that a scheme should be devised 
whereby the general elections to the Lok Sabha and the State Legislative Assemblies are 
held simultaneously . 

The rationale given is that this will result in huge saving to the public exchequer, 
avoidance of replication of efforts on part of administration and law and ordermachinery in 
holding repeated elections and bring considerable savings to political parties and candidates 
in their election campaigns . 

Another argument in support of the above suggestion is that now asynchronous 
Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly elections including bye - elections result in prolonged 
enforcement of Model Code of Conductwith its concomitant adverse impact on development 
and welfare programmes. 

Under the Parliamentary democracy envisaged in our Constitution , situations may 
arise from time to time, where the five years term of the Lok Sabha may have to be either 
curtailed or extended . The same would be the situation in relation to the State Legislative 
Assemblies. The proposal for simultaneous elections, however, would involve having fixed 
term for the Union and State Legislative bodies . 


Hence this Bill. 


NEW DELHI; 


MEENAKASHI LEKHI 


November 23 , 2016 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


355 


Bill No. 210 OF 2017 


Short title . 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India 
as follows: 

1. This Act may be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act , 2017. 
2. In article 124 , after clause (7 ), the following clauses shall be inserted , namely : 

" (8 ) The Chief Justice of India shall not be eligible for further office either under 
the Government of India or under the Government of any State or in any Public Sector 
Undertaking after he has ceased to hold his office. 

(9 ) A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be eligible for further office either 
under Government of India or under the Government of any State or in any Public 
Sector Undertaking after he has ceased to hold his office .". 


Amendment 
of article 124 


356 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Independence of judiciary is an essential attribute of rule of law , which is one of the 
basic features of the Constitution . Judiciary must be free from all pressures including the 
pressures from executive as well as psychological pressure on the Judges related to their 
future after retirement. The Judges are required to ensure the independence and impartiality 
of judiciary by keeping themselves free from any allurement of employment under the 
Government after their retirement. 

The Constitution , specifically prohibits the Chairman of Union Public Service 
Commission and its Members, the Chairman of the State Public Service Commission and its 
Members for further employment either under the Government of India or under the 
Government of any State. The Constitution , on the other hand , nowhere restricts or prohibits 
retired Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court to hold further office/ employment 
either under the Government of India or under any of the State Governments . 

The Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court, the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India , the Chairman ofUnion Public Service Commission , the Chairman of the 
State Public Service Commission and the Members of these Commissions are constitutional 
functionaries and they should be kept free from all kinds of allurementof employmentunder 
the Government after cessation of their office. It is presumed that reappointment of Judges 
would have effect of undermining the independence and fairness of judiciary. 

The Constitution prohibits the Comptroller and Auditor General of India ,the Chairman , 
Public Service Commission and its members from getting employment after cessation of their 
office . However, no such bar is there with regard to the Chief Justice and the judges of the 
SupremeCourt. 

In the present scenario, the Chief Justice and Judges are getting handsome salaries, 
other amenities, perks and post retirement benefits. The Chief Justice and Judges of the 
Supreme Court are adjudicating the rights of citizens which have been jeopardized by the 
Government. The Judges are coming in contact with the Government on every step . As such 
need of the moment is to introduce a provision in the Constitution of India for prohibition to 
hold any office employmentby retired Chief Justices and Judges of the Supreme Courtunder 
the Government of India or under the Government of State . 


Hence this Bill. 


NEW DELHI; 


MEENAKASHI LEKHI 


November 23 , 2016 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


357 


Bill No . 44 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution ( Scheduled Castes) (Union Territories ) 

Order, 1951 . 


Oraer, 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


and 


C .O . 32 . 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) ( Union Territories) Short title , 
Order ( Amendment) Act , 2018 . 

commencement. 
(2 ) It shall comeinto force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2 . In the Schedule to the Constitution (Scheduled Castes ) (Union Territories ) Amendment 
Order , 1951, — 

of the 

Schedule. 
(i) in Part I. — Delhi, — 
(a) for entry 8, the following entry shall be substituted , namely: 

" 8 .Balmiki Valmiki" ; 
(b ) for entry 10 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" 10 . Jatava or Jatav ,Mochi, Ramdasia , Ravidasi, Raidasi, Rehgarh 
or Raigar" ; 


358 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(c) for entry 11, the following entry shall be substituted, namely : 

" 11. Balmiki, Valmiki" ; 
(d ) entry 12 , shall be omitted ; and 
(e ) for entry 20 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" 20 .Gihara ". 
( ii ) in Part II . — Chandigarh , — 
(a ) for entry 7 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" 7. Balmiki"; 
(b ) for entry 9 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" 9 . Jatav, Jatia , Rehgar, Raigar , Ramdasi orRavidasi " . 
(iii ) in Part III. — Daman and Diu , for entry 1, the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" 1. Balmiki or Valmiki" . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


359 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


As per provisions contained in articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution , the list of the 
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes were notified by the Presidential Orders during 
the year 1950 and 1951 in respect of various States and Union territories respectively. 


However, the connotation attached to the terms used for certain castes such as " Bhangi", 
" Chamar" or " Chuhra" is extremely derogatory. These words are not longer reminiscent of 
their etymological meaning and have acquired a derogatory connotation due to the context 
in which they are generally used in our society. These words are used by others to insult , 
abuse and deride the people belonging to the Scheduled Castes and are highly offensive in 
nature . Banning these words is important to prevent indignities , humiliation and harassment 
to the members belonging to these communities. 

Correct usage of "Gihara" is also important to prevent neglecting the importance these 
communities attach to the name of their caste and also to prevent any inconsistency in the 
official usage of the name. 

Hence this Bill . 


MEENAKASHI LEKHI 


NEW DELHI; 
January 24 , 2018 . 


360 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


The Bill seeks to amend the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) (Union territory ) 
Order, 1951 in respect of Delhi, Chandigarh and Daman and Diu with a view to substitute 
names of certain castes which are derogatory and offensive in nature with new and correct 
names of castes which are in usage . In a way , no new castes are being added in list of 
Scheduled Castes in respect of three Union territories and as such no additional expenditure 
is involved on this account. The Bill , therefore , if enacted would not involve any additional 
recurring and non -recurring expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


361 


361 


Bill No. 192 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for compensation to victims of wild animals declared as vermin and for 

matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Payment of Compensation to Victims of Vermin 
Wild Animals and Crop Raid Act, 2017 . 


Short title and 
commence 
ment . 


Definitions. 


( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay,by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 
2. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " carrying capacity " means the maximum population size of the species that 
the protected area can sustain indefinitely, given the food , habitat , water and other 
necessities available in that area . 


362 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


53 of 1972 


(b ) " crop raid " means an act of entering into a cultivated area by the wild animals 
and causing the damage to the entire crop ; 

(c) " Fund " means the Vermin Wild Animals and Crop Raid Compensation Fund 
constituted under section 7 ; 

(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

(e) " Scheme" means the Scheme for compensation to persons affected by vermin 
wild animals and crop raid framed under section 4 ; 

(1) " vermin " means noxious, objectionable or disgusting animals collectively , 
that appear in human habitation and poses harm to human lives, agricultural crops , 
domestic animals or which carry disease and includes any wild animal as declared as 
vermin under section 62 of the Wild Life Protection Act , 1972 ; and 

(8 ) " wild animal" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the 
provisions of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972 . 

(2) The words and expression used but not defined in this Act shall have the same 
meanings as assigned to it under the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972 . 

3. (1) The CentralGovernment shall ,by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute 
an Expert Team in each State to recommend for notification of wild animals which may be 
declared as vermin . 

(2 ) The Central Government shall , on the recommendations of the Expert Committee 
constituted under sub - section (1) and after conducting carrying capacity study, notify wild 
animals causing or intending to cause harm to human life and property or causing destruction 
to agriculture crops, due to overpopulation in the protected areas and scattered over to 
human habitations and plantations as vermin . 

( 3) The Central Government shall also take necessary steps to contain the population 
of wild animals in the protected area and other habitats within the carrying capacity so as to 
prevent them from scattering over to the human habitations and plantations and causing or 
intending to cause crop raid, damage to human life and properties. 

4 . ( 1 ) The Central Governmentshall , by notification in the OfficialGazette, formulate a 
Scheme for payment of compensation to persons affected by vermin wild animals or crop 
raid . 


Central 
Government to 
constitute an 
expert team in 
each State to 
notify wild 
animals as 
vermin . 


Central 
Government to 
formulate a 
Scheme for 
compensation to 
persons affected 
by vermin wild 
animals and 
crop raid . 


( 2 ) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision , the scheme shall 
include: — 


(i) area with clear administrative boundary to which the scheme shall be 
applicable ; 


( ii ) declaration of wild animals as vermin and reasons thereof; 


( iii) date on which the scheme shall cease to operate ; and 

( iv ) the recommendation of stakeholder and expert team consultation , carrying 
capacity studies and stakeholder surveys . 


Administration 5 . The Scheme shall be administered by such authority , not lower in rank than the 
of the Scheme. 

le . district Collector, as may be specified by the CentralGovernment. 


Person 
Affected 
by vermin wild 
animals to apply 
to the District 
Collector for 
compensation . 


6 . Every person affected by the vermin wild animals or crop raid shall apply to the 
District Collector or such other authority specified under section 5 for the payment of 
compensation in such form and manner as may be prescribed. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


363 


Fund . 


7. (1 ) The Central Government shall, by notification in the OfficialGazette , constitute Constitution 
a Vermin Wild Animals and Crop Raid Compensation Fund to which the Central Government 

of Vermin 

Wild Animals 
and State Governments concerned shall contribute every year in such ratio as may be 

and Crop Raid 
prescribed . 

Compensation 
(2) The Fund shall be utilized for payment of compensation to the persons affected by 
crop raids or otherwise by vermin wild animals. 

(3 ) The Fund shall also be credited from corporate social responsibility funds and 
wildlife protection activists, as donations . 

8 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in Central 
this behalf , provide adequate funds for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

Government to 
provide 
adequate funds . 


9 . The Central Government may issue directions to the concerned State Governments Power to issue 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

directions. 
10 . The provisions of this Act shall have affect notwithstanding anything inconsistent Act to have 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force . 

overriding 

effect. 
11 . (1 ) The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazette , make Power to 
rules for carrying out the purpose of this Act. 

make rules . 


(2 ) Every rule made under his Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made 
before each House of the State Legislature while it is in session for a total period of 
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions 
and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or successive 
sessions aforesaid both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses 
agree that rule should not bemade, the rule shallthereafterhave effect only in such modified 
form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so however, that any such modification or 
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that 
rule . 


364 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The population of wild life in the protected areas including National parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries and reserved forests is increasing beyond the carrying capacity of the protected 
areas due to strict implementation of laws, growing concern of the environment and wild life 
protection authorities. Due to the population beyond carrying capacity , the wild animals are 
forced to come out from their natural habitat and migrate to the human habitations including 
thickly populated areas. Due to these phenomena , the man -animal conflict is increasing day 
by day and in most of the cases, the human beings are at the receiving end . Due to animal 
attack and crop raids , residents are losing their life and property . In the event of loss of life 
or damage to the properties or agricultural crops, there is no provision giving the affected 
parties a statutory right to get their damages adequately compensated . There is no provision 
of law enabling the stakeholders to cull the wild animals so as to contain their population 
within the carrying capacity of their natural habitats such as the National Parks, the wild life 
sanctuaries, reserved forest and other protected areas. Therefore , it is highly required to 
have a legislation conferring rights on the citizens to get their damages due to attack by wild 
animal adequately compensated and also to cull the wild animals for the purpose of containing 
their population within the carrying capacity of their natural habitats . 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. 


JOICE GEORGE 


NEW DELHI; 
August 4 , 2017 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


365 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of an Expert Team to notify wild 
animals as vermin . Clause 7 provides for the constitution of a Vermin Wild Animals and 
Crop Raid Compensation Fund. Clause 8 provides that the Central Governmentshall provide 
adequate funds for carrying out the purposes of the Act. The Bill, therefore , if enacted will 
involve expenditure from Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring 
expenditure of aboutrupees two hundred and ten crore would involve from the Consolidated 
Fund of India. A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees fifteen lakhs is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of details only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


366 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 194 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 . 
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1 . ( 1) This Actmay be called the National Green Tribunal (Amendment) Act, 2017 . 


Short title and 
commencement. 


Amendment 
of section 5 . 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay , by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2. In Section 5 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010, (hereinafter referred to as 19 of 2010 . 
the principal Act ), — 

(a ) in sub - section ( 1), for the words, " or has been , a Judge of the Supreme 
Court of India or Chief Justice of a High Court " , the words " qualified to be appointed 
as a Judge of the Supreme Court or a High Court" shall be substituted ; and 

(b ) in the proviso to sub -section (1 ), for the words " or has been a Judge of the 
High Court " , the words " qualified to be appointed as a Judge of the High Court" shall 
be substituted . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


367 


3. In section 7 of the principal Act, 

(a ) for the words " five years", the words "three years" shall be substituted ; 


Amendment 
to section 7 . 


and 


(b ) for the existing proviso , the following proviso shall be substituted , namely : 

" Provided that the Chairperson or , JudicialMember or Expert Member of the 
Tribunal shall not hold office after he has attained the age of sixty five years .". 
4 . In section 10 of the principal Act, 

Amendment 

to section 10 . 
(a) in sub -section (2) for the words " Judge of the Supreme Court", the words 
" Committee consisting of a Judge of the Supreme Court , two independentMembers 
nominated by the Central Government in consultation with the Chief Justice of India 
and the Leader of the Opposition or the leader of the largest opposition party in the 
House of the People, " shall be substituted ; and 

(b ) in sub - section (3 ), for the words " Judge of the Supreme Court " occurring at 
both the places, the word " Committee" shall be substituted . 

5 . For section 22 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted , Substitution of 
namely : 

new section for 

section 22 . 
" 22 . Any person aggrieved by any award , decision or order of the Tribunal, Appeal. 
may, file an appeal to the High Court having local jurisdiction , within ninety days 
from the date of communication of the award , decision or order of Tribunal to him : 

Provided thatthe High Courtmay entertain any appeal after the expiry of ninety 
days , if it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from 
preferring the appeal.". 


368 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 has been enacted with the objectives of providing 
effective access to judicial and administrative proceedings including, redress and remedy, 
and to develop national laws regarding liability and compensation for the victimsof pollution 
and other environmental damages. The Act has been brought on the basis of the 
recommendation of the Law Commission of India for the setting up of environmental courts 
having original and appeal jurisdiction relating to environmental law . But as per the provision 
of the Act, the post of Chairperson and Judicial Members are only reserved for the retired 
Judges of the Supreme Court and the Chief Justices of the High Courts . Now the National 
Green Tribunal (NGT) has become a rehabilitation centre for the retired Judges of the Supreme 
Court and High Courts which is affecting the efficacy of the NGT. Therefore , it is necessary 
to amend the law to bring persons having competency and impeccable integrity with sound 
knowledge in law as the Chairperson and Judicial Members of the NGT. Though the stated 
objective is to provide effective access to judicial remedies, by section 22 of the Act, the 
appeal remedy against the award , decision or order of the Tribunal is confined to the Supreme 
Court . It is well known that the Supreme Court is not accessible to the people at large especially 
the victimsof environmental issues and the activities of certain groups having vested interests 
trying to implement environmental colonialism in our land to the disadvantage of the poor 
farmers, marginalized farm labours, tribals and other vulnerable group . Further the civil 
courts are barred from entertaining any appeal or application in respect of any matter, which 
the Tribunal is empowered to determine under its appeal jurisdiction and the Tribunalhaving 
jurisdiction to settle disputes or entertain any question relating to any claim for granting any 
relief or compensation , etc ., respectively. Therefore , in effect the appeal remedy is almost 
denied to the affected parties against the order of NGT. 


The Bill , therefore seeks to amend the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 with a 
view to — 

(a ) restrict the appointment of retired Judges of Supreme Court or the Chief 
Justice of a High Court as Chairperson and Judicial Member, respectively of the 
National Green Tribunal; 

(b ) limit the age of retirement of Chairperson and other Judicial Member of the 
National Green Tribunal to sixty - five years; and 

(c) provide the right to appeal against the award, decision or order of the National 
Green Tribunal to the High Court having local Jurisdiction . 

Hence this Bill . 


JOICE GEORGE 


NEW DELHI; 
August 4 , 2017 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


369 


Bill No . 63 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for conservation and elimination of pollution of rivers of the country 

and for matters connected therewith 


Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. (1 ) This Act may be called the River (Conservation and Elimination of Pollution ) Short title and 
Act, 2018 . 

commencement. 


( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay ,by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


370 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


14 of 1947 . 


Definitions. 

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(b ) " Committee " means the River Conservation Committee constituted under 
section 8 ; 

(c) " industry " shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (j) of 
section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; 

(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 
(e) " river " means an inter- State river or river valley; and 

(f) " school" means any Government school or a Government aided school or a 

private school which imparts education from primary to senior secondary level. 
Formulation of 3. The Central Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette , formulate a 
a policy for policy for mandatory cleaning of all the rivers of the country . 
mandatory 
cleaning of 
rivers . 
Inclusion of 

4 . The appropriate Government shall include the ill -effects of water pollution as a 
ill- effects of subject in the curriculum of study in school education under their jurisdiction . 
water 
pollution in 
school 
Appropriate 

5 . The appropriate Government shall, prior to organizing any religious festival on the 
Government to banks of a river, launch awareness campaigns on ill-effects of water pollution and its impact 
launch 

on human health . 
awareness 
campaign . 
Appropriate 

6 . The appropriate Government shall , after detailed study, systematically shut down 
Government to industries that cause or are likely to cause river pollution . 
the industries 
causing river 
pollution . 
Vocational 

7 . The appropriate Government shall put in place vocational training for the persons 
training. rendered jobless due to closure of industries causing pollution . 
Constitution 

8 . ( 1) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification , 
of River appoint, there shall be constituted , for the purposes of this Act, a Committee to be known as 
Conservation 

the River Conservation Committee . 
Committee . 

(2) The Committee shall consist of: 

(a ) Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change; 

(b ) Union Minister of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga 
Rejuvenation ; 


(c ) an environment scientist in the field of water pollution , as member ; 
(d ) a person having experience in the field of river conservation , as member ; 
(e ) ChiefMinisters of all States as members ; and 
(f) an officer of Indian Administrative Service as member - Secretary, 

to be appointed by the CentralGovernment in such manner asmay be prescribed . 
(3) The Union Minister, whosover is senior, shall act as an ex -officio Chairperson of 
the Committee ; 

(4 ) The Committee shall meet at least twice in a month . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


371 


(5) The Salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
members of the Committee other than the ex -officio members, shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 

9 . The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change shall provide Central 
secretarial and financial assistance to the Committee . 

Government to 
provide 
secretarial 

assistance. 
10 . The Committee shall, — 

Functions of 

the Committee 
( a ) ensure complete ban on pollution of river ; 
(b ) ensure the availability of clean and potable water ; 

(c ) ensure pollution free zones within two kilometer area on both sides of the 
rivers ; 

(d ) ensure that celebration of religious festivals does not cause river pollution ; 

( e ) organize mass compaign in order to cause awareness about the ill effects of 
river pollution ; 

(f) ensure inclusion of ill-effect of river pollution in school curriculum ; 
(g ) impose ban upon releasing or dumping of waste in to the rivers by factories ; 
(h ) impose penalty on any industry causing river pollution ; 

( i) draw public attention towards the fatal effects of river pollution upon human 
health ; and 


(j) ensure total ban on releasing of effluents of drains into river. 
11. The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriationmadeby Parliament by law Central 
in this behalf , provide requisite funds for carrying out the purposes of this Act from time to Government to 
time. 

provide funds. 


12 . (1 ) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government, in consultation with the State Governments , may make such order or give such remove 

difficulty . 
direction , not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appears to it to be necessary or 
expedient for the removal of any difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of two years 
from the date of commencement of this Act. 


( 2 ) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made , be 
laid before both the Houses of Parliament. 

13. (1) The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazette, make Power to make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

rules. 
( 2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


372 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Rivers are known as the lifelines of a country and act as a mirror of its culture and 
civilization . In the Indian culture , society , rulers and saints have given the title of mother to 
these life giving rivers and has also treated them with respect befitting a mother . During the 
past few years , due to ever increasing industrialisation and urbanisation , the level of pollu 
tion has increased massively in major rivers. Due to indiscriminate use of river water for 
irrigation , drinking, power generation and for other purposes, challenges have increased 
manifold . The Indian rivers are in extremely bad condition . The Welfare of human race lies 
with the cleaning of rivers . Only through mutual cooperation , we can think of clean rivers. 
There were times , when in India , trade was used to be carried through water ways , but today 
it has become a dream . Improving present conditions is necessary for a bright future . Today 
many rivers of India are biologically dead . Along with environment it is affecting the lives of 
the people also . According to a World Resources Report, seventy per cent. of Indians drink 
polluted water. Many diseases i.e . cholera , jaundice , typhoid , etc . are caused due to con 
sumption of polluted water. River water is also polluted by chemical fertilizers. The quality 
of river water has further deteriorated due to industries . 

Nearly more than one hundred and fifty rivers of India are polluted . Today rivers are 
used as dumping place and carriers of waste and chemical substances thrown out of the 
factories.May industrial units are located along the banks of the Ganga, the Yamuna and the 
Brahmaputra rivers. Number of factories in such cities are on rise and the only option is to 
discharge their chemical affluents into the rivers. Due to legislation during the 1980 - 90 
decade, every day millions of gallons of polluted water from factories were discharging into 
the rivers. By immersing puja and havan related items into holy rivers , people wish to gain 
spiritual wealth . On all positive occasions , we used to immerse idols of gods or goddesses 
into the rivers and dead bodies and remains are also dumped into the rivers. 

Moreover, there are many rivers in Himalayan region that are getting polluted due to 
heavy influx of tourists . 

In order to make the Ganga a clean , pollution free river, the National Green Tribunal 
headed by Justice Surat Kumar on 13 July, 2017 declared an area of several metres on both 
sides of the Ganga river between Haridwar and Unnav as non -construction zone and prohibited 
dumping within an area of five hundred metres of river bank and also directed to impose a 
penalty of rupees fifty thousand on any person who pollutes the river. 

The Ganga is one of the most polluted rivers in the world in which tonnes of sewage 
and industrial waste is being dumped on a daily basis . Originating as a crystal clear stream 
from the snow capped Himalayan mountains, the Ganga gets converted into toxic sludge 
after flowing through different industrial and non - industrial cities and due to indiscriminate 
use by the devotees. 

In the 1570 mile ( approx 2527 km .) stretch of Ganga river from the Himalayas to the 
Bay of Bengal , out of 480 crore litre sewage being daily discharged only one -fourth of it is 
being treated . The colour ofGanga river flowing below the bridges of industrial city like 
Kanpur has turned dark grey, where industrial waste and sewage flowing in the drains gets 
discharged into the river and form continuous foams over surface of water. The need is to 
put a check on the rapid pollution of such rivers in the country . 

The Bill , therefore , seeks to constitute a River Conservation Committee for conserva 
tion and elimination of the pollution of rivers in the country . 

Hence this Bill . 


SHRIRANG APPA BARNE 


NEW DELHI; 
January 22 , 2018 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


373 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for formulation of a policy for mandatory cleaning for all 
rivers of the country. Clause 5 provides for launching of awareness campaigns on ill- effects 
of water pollution . Clause 7 provides for vocational training for persons rendered jobless 
due to closure of pollution causing industries . Clause 8 provides that the 
Central Government shall constitute the River Conservation Committee . Clause 9 provides 
for secretarial and financial assistance to the River Conservation Committee . Clause 11 
provides that the Central Government shall provide funds for carrying out the purposes of 
the Act. The Bill , therefore , if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund 
of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees two thousand crore would involve as recurring 
expenditure per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India. 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees five hundred crore is also likely to be incurred . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 

Clause 13 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character . 


374 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 55 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


34 of 1971 . 


Short title and 1. (1) This Act may be called the Medical Termination of Pregnancy ( Amendment) 
commencement. Act, 2018 . 

(2) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 

in the Official Gazette, appoint. 
Amendment 

2 . In section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred 
of section 3 . 

to as the principal Act), in sub - section (2 ), in clause (b ), for the words " twenty weeks", the 
words " twenty - four weeks and in case of rape survivor , anytime during the pregnancy but 

before twenty -seven weeks" shall be substituted . 
Substitution of 3. For section 4 of the principal Act the following section shall be substituted, namely : 
new section for 
section 4 . 

“ 4 . No termination of pregnancy shall be made in accordance with this Act at 
any place other than a hospital or medical college established or maintained by the 
Government of India ." . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


375 


4 . After section 4 , of the principalAct the following section shallbe inserted , namely : - Central 

Supervisory 
" 4A . (1) There shall be established a Board to be known as Central Supervisory Board . 
Board which shall consist of such number of eminent medical Geneticists, 
Gynaecologists and Obstetricians, Paediatricians , Social Scientists and Representatives 
of Women Welfare Organization as may be prescribed to discharge functions assigned 
under this Act. 

( 2) The Chairperson of the Board shall be appointed from amongst the members 
of the Board ; 


( 3 ) The terms and conditions of appointment of the Chairperson and members 
of the Board shall be such as may be prescribed ." . 


5 . In section 5 of the principal Act, in -section ( 1 ), the following provisos shall be Amendment 
inserted , namely : 

of section 5 . 


" Provided that if in the majority opinion of the Central Supervisory Board , 
continuance of pregnancy may involve a substantial risk in case the child is born with 
following abnormalities: 

(a ) chromosomal abnormalities ; 
(b ) genetic metabolic diseases ; 
(c ) haemoglobinopathies; 
(d) sex -linked genetic diseases ; 
(e ) congenital abnormalities ; or 

(f) another abnormalities or diseases as may be specified by the Central 
Supervisory Board , 

the pregnancy, irrespective of the length of pregnancy, shall be terminated in 
accordance with the provisions of section 4 : 

Provided further that if the pregnant woman irrespective of her age is a rape 
survivor, the pregnancy be terminated within twenty -seven weeks of such pregnancy 
in accordance with the provisions of section 4 ." . 


376 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Actwas enacted in 1971. Since its enactment, 
there have been spectacular socio - economic changes in the society. The lifestyle of the people 
has also changed considerably . Besides, technology in medical science has improved very 
much and there have been new techniques , which can detect foetal abnormalities in the 
advanced stage of pregnancy also . These techniques were not known or available when the 
Act was enacted in 1971. 

In our country abortion is legal only up to twenty weeks of pregnancy under specific 
conditions and situations, broadly defined as the continuance of the pregnancy would involve 
a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or of grave injury of physical or mental health , or 
there is a substantial risk that if the child were born , it would suffer from such physical or 
mental abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped . 

Sometimes , it may happen that a defective child in the womb may cause substantial 
physicaldamage to the mother and it may result in death of the child or themother. Therefore , 
it would be better if the abnormalities are detected and aborted in time with the latest 
technology 

Recently, the Supreme Court permitted a rape survivor to terminate her pregnancy at 
twenty -four weeks, which is beyond the permissible twenty weeks limit prescribed under the 
Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. Their grounds were that continuing the 
pregnancy could greatly endanger her physical andmental health . In this instance , the Supreme 
Court directed the members of the appointed Medical Board to examine the petitioner and 
the viability of the pregnancy . The Board found that the foetus had multiple congenital 
anomalies and the severity of these anomalies posed a grave risk to the physical and mental 
health of the petitioner. Therefore , the Medical Board recommended that the petitioner be 
allowed not to continue the pregnancy . Based on these recommendations, the Supreme Court 
granted the petitioner permission to terminate her pregnancy. 

This is not the first time that the Supreme Court has permitted a woman to abort a 
foetus older than twenty weeks. In 2015 , the apex Court overturned a decision by the Gujarat 
High Court in a similar case . The Gujarat High Court had denied permission to a fourteen 
year-old rape survivor to abort her twenty - five week old foetus. Interestingly, while delivering 
its verdict , the High Court acknowledged the adverse physical, emotional and psychological 
implications of the decision on the petitioner s life , but ultimately chose to subscribe to the 
law . The girl then approached the Supreme Court , which recommended that amedical panel 
examine the girl and decide whether the termination of pregnancy was in her best interests ; 
if the panel was in favour of the abortion , then the girl could go ahead with the termination. 

There is a provision in the parent Act for termination of pregnancy if it is found that 
the continuance of the pregnancy would involve a substantial risk to the life of the women 
and the termination can be made at any time even in the advance stage, that is length of the 
pregnancy would not be a deciding factor. But, there is no provision for termination of 
pregnancy if the child to be born with abnormalities like genetics, severe heart diseases and 
likewise. Therefore , it is proposed that a suitable amendment to the parent Act be made so 
that pregnancy can be terminated even in the advanced stage if continuance of pregnancy 
involves a substantial risk of the child being born with certain specified abnormalities . 
However, it is also necessary to ensure that the termination of pregnancy is conducted under 
the supervision of a Medical Board and that too in a designated place . Moreover, it is also 
required to ensure that if the pregnant woman is a rape survivor, the pregnancy be terminated 
without the supervision of any Medical Board but in a designated place within twenty - seven 
weeks of such pregnancy. 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objective. 


SHRIRANG APPA BARNE 


NEW DELHI; 
January 22 , 2018 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


377 


Bill No . 47 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the promotion of solar energy by establishing an Authority to 
protect the environment and control the global warming being caused due to 
burning of fossil fuels for energy production resulting in noxious 
emissions therefrom and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


ете 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


Definitions. 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Solar Energy Promotion Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases , the Central Government. 

(b ) " Authority " means the National Solar Energy Authority of India established 
under section 3; 

(C) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act ; 
(d ) " Solar energy " means the energy obtained from natural sources of sunlight. 


378 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Establishment 
of National 
Solar Energy 
Authority. 


Composition 
of the 
Authority . 


3. (1) The Central Government shall , as soon as may be, by notification in the Official 
Gazette , establish an Authority to be known as the National Solar Energy Authority of India 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act . 

(2 ) The headquarters of the Authority shall be at New Delhi and it shall have offices 
at such other places in the country as it may deem necessary for carrying out the purposes 
of this Act. 
(3) The Authority shall consist of: 

(a ) a Chairperson , who shall be an expert scientist having adequate knowledge 
and professional experience in the field of solar energy , to be appointed by the Central 
Government; 

(b ) one Deputy Chairperson with such qualifications asmay be prescribed , to be 
appointed by the Central Government; 

( c) five members of Parliament of whom three shall be from Lok Sabha and two 
from Rajya Sabha to be nominated by the respective Presiding Officers of the House 
concerned ; 

(d ) five members to represent the Union Ministries of Environment and Forests , 
Science and Technology , New and Renewable Energy , Planning and Finance, to be 
nominated by the Central Government; 

( e) fourmembers to represent the non -Governmental Organisationsworking for 
the protection of environment and promotion of solar energy in the country, to be 
nominated by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed ; 
and 


(f) fourmembers to be nominated by the Governments of the States to be rotated 
amongst the States in alphabetical order. 

(4 ) The Authority shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid having perpetual 
succession and common seal with power to acquire , hold and dispose of property both movable 
and immovable and to contract and shall by the said name sue and be sued . 


(5 ) The term of office of the Chairperson , Deputy Chairperson and members of the 
Authority and the procedure to be followed in the discharge of the functions of the Authority 
shall be such , as may be prescribed . 

(6 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and other terms and conditions of the 
service ofmembers other than ex -officio members of the Authority shall be such asmay be 
prescribed . 

( 7) The Central Government shall provide such number of officers and staff to the 
Authority as is required for its efficient functioning . 


( 8 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and other terms and conditions of the 
officers and staff of the Authority shall be such as may be prescribed . 


(9 ) The Authority shall meet at least two times in a year. 


Functions of 
the Authority . 


4 . ( 1) Subject to any guidelines issued by the CentralGovernment under the provisions 
of this Act, the Authority shall perform and undertake such special steps in close co -ordination 
with concerned Ministries, Departments and Public Sector Enterprise of the Central and 
State Governments for the rapid and accelerated promotion and development of solar energy 
throughout the country as it may deem necessary and expedient to do so for the promotion of 
solar energy. 
(2 ) Without prejudice to be generality of the foregoing provisions, the Authority shall , 

(a ) formulate solar energy policy , its goals and execution plan ; 
(b ) develop indicative standards of solar energy ; 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


379 


(c ) support and encourage research and development through Government and 
private sector participation involving all major Research Laboratories ; 

(d ) work for greening of industry and create public awareness of climate change 
and other environmental issues ; 

(e ) facilitate infrastructure development of solar energy in rural areas; 

(f) suggest ways for conversion of fossil fuel based on industrial heating to solar 
thermal heating through new solar concentrator technology or its hybrids; 

(8 ) suggest educational and other policy initiatives for solar energy ; 

(h ) create interactive web based resource maps of different solar technologies to 
facilitate speedy project development and market expansion ; 

(i) facilitate quick technology transfer and adoption of solar energy ; and 

(j) such other activities as may be assigned from time to time. 
5 . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in Government 
force , the appropriate Government shall in consultation with the Authority make it compulsory and commercial 

establishments 
for every establishment including Government establishments to , 

to use solar 
(a ) use the photovoltaic energy in all public buildings; 

energy. 
(b ) ensure every company, firm in any business having open area of more than 
200 square yards on ground or roof install photovoltaic or solar cells to fulfil its fifty 
per cent of electricity and fuel demand shall impose heavy fine of rupees one lakh per 
month ; 

(c )make provision for time-bound solar water heating in all buildings with defined 
floor area; 

(d ) make it mandatory for electricity utilities for compulsory purchase of 
electricity from solar energy sources ; 

(e ) reserve adequate land for setting up of solar energy projects ; 

(f) encourage monetarily by providing loan atone per cent interest for purchase , 
installation and use of solar cells ; and 

(g ) take such other steps as the appropriate Government may deem necessary. 
(2 ) The appropriate Government shall, as soon as may be , identify the exploitable 
sources of solar energy in their respective territorial jurisdictions and send project reports 
thereon to the Authority which shall depute a team of experts to verify and assess the possibility 
of exploiting solar energy sources . 

(3) The Authority shall on the basis of the report submitted by the team of experts 
work out the estimated expenditure on the projects submitted to it under sub -section (2 ) and 
recommend the Central Government to implement the projects in a time-bound manner. 

6 . The Central Government shall , after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in Central 
this behalf, provide to the Authority in each financial year such sums as may be considered Governme 
necessary and adequate for the performance of the functions of the Authority under ! 
this Act. 

7 . The Authority shall prepare once in every calendar year in such form and at such Authority to 
time as may be prescribed an Annual Report giving a true and full account of its activities prepare Annual 

Reports . 
during the previous year and copies thereof shall be forwarded to the President of India who 
shall cause the same to be laid before both the Houses of Parliament. 


funds . 


8 . (1 ) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may , by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions, not remove 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for 

difficulties 
removing the difficulty: 


380 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ Part II — 


Power to 
make rules . 


Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of two years 
from the date of the commencement of this Act. 

(2) Every order made under this section shall as soon as may be after it is made, be laid 
before both the Houses of Parliament. 

9 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification in the OfficialGazette, make rules 
for carry out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect , as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


381 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The world Meteorological Organisation has reported that a series of record breaking 
weather events have caused havoc in the world during the year 2007 . Temperature records 
were broken in western and central Russia in May and in South Eastern Europe in June and 
July . In many European countries April was the warmest ever recorded month . China and 
some parts of India were hit by the worst snowfall followed by avalanches. According to 
research , even though temperatures are showing precarious rise , global warming is forecast 
to set in with a vengeance only after 2009 with at least half of the five following years 
expected to be hotter than 1998 , the warmest year on record . The global warming is being 
caused by human activities such as the burning of fossil fuels which release greenhouse 
gases. The accelerating rate of carbon dioxide emissions is largely due to rising energy 
consumption , notably coal and petroleum products resulting from an increasing population 
and higher per capita GDP. The mitigation of global warming is possible only through a 
transition to a low carbon economy, which means large- scale development of solar energy is 
the biggest imperative of our times for environmental protection . 

Our country has vast potential of solar energy . According to conservative estimate , 
Mega Watt wind power potential is 4500 Mega Watt and with the growth in unit size of 
turbines, greater land availability and expanded wind resource exploration , this potential 
should go up significantly up to one lakh Mega Watt. At the same time an urgent assessment 
of the potential of power generation from solar energy in our country is essential. This is 
more so because of the recent growth of Concentrating Solar Power (CSP ). The desert area 
of our country have the solar radiation required for CSP production . A 60 KMX 60 kilometer 
area can produce one lakh Mega Watt of power. We have a desert area of 208110 square 
kilometer in Rajasthan and Gujarat . Even if we use only 15000 square kilometer of desert 
we can produce three lakh Mega Watt of power. The solar energy power production potential 
in our country can easily be scaled up to six lakhMega Watt in the future through multifarious 
sources and new energy technologies. We are also capable of producing bio - fuels. It is felt 
that an authority to tap these potentials should be established at the national level. 

Hence this Bill . 


SHRIRANG APPA BARNE 


NEW DELHI; 
January 22 , 2018 


382 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of National Solar Energy Authority . 
It also provides for the composition of the Authority and the salary and allowances for its 
Chairperson , Deputy Chairperson , members, officers and staff. Clause 4 provides for 
infrastructure development of solar energy in rural areas. Clause 6 provides that the Central 
Government shall provide adequate funds to the Authority. The Bill , therefore , if enacted , 
will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual 
recurring expenditure of rupees five hundred crore will be involved from the Consolidated 
Fund of India. 

A non-recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is, therefore , of a normal character . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


383 


383 


Bill No. 70 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the welfare measures to be undertaken by the State for the rural 
labour employed in the agriculture sector and allied activities thereto and other rural 
occupations by establishing a Welfare Fund for such labour and for taking 
other measures to improve their living and working conditions 

and for matters connected therewith . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of theRepublic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1. (1) This Actmay be called the Rural Labour (Welfare) Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India. 

(3 ) It shall comeinto force on such date , as the CentralGovernmentmay , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in other cases, the Central Government; 


Definitions . 


384 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(b ) "Committee " means the National Rural Labour Welfare Committee 
established under section 3 ; 

(c ) " employer" includes cultivator, orchard owner, poultry farm owner , livestock 
rearer, agency society, food processing unit, crusher, oil or pulses mill or any such 
establishment located in any rural area which employs rural based labour ; 

(d ) " Fund " means the Rural Labour Welfare Fund established under section 5 ; 


Establishment 
of the National 


(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 

(f) " rural labour" means any person residing in a village and engaged in any 
rural vocation such as agriculture,horticulture , sericulture, poultry, rearing of livestock 
including piggery, food processing , handicrafts , weaving or any such other occupation 
as a wage earner whether in cash or kind , for his livelihood and includes any person 
engaged through a contractor or engaged as a self employed person . 

3. (1 ) The CentralGovernment shall , as soon as may be , by notification in the Official 
hal Gazette, establish a Committee to be known as the National RuralLabour Welfare Committee 
Rural Labour 
Welfare 

for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 
Committee . 

(2 ) The headquarter of the Committee shall be at New Delhi and the Committee may 
establish offices at such other places in the country as it may deem necessary for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act . 
(3 ) The Committee shall consist of 

( a ) a Union Minister to be appointed by the CentralGovernment in such manner 
as may be prescribed , Chairperson ex -officio ; 

(b ) five Members of Parliament of whom three shall be from the House of the 
People and two from the Council of States to be appointed by the presiding officers 
of the Houses concerned , members, ex-officio ; 

( c) six representatives from the Union Ministry of Labour, Planning and Finance 
to be appointed by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed , 
members; and 

(d ) seven members to be nominated by the Governments of the States to be 
rotated amongst the States in alphabetical order. 

(4) The term of the office of Chairperson , members of the Committee and the 

procedure to be followed in the discharge of its functions shallbe such as may be prescribed . 
Formulation 4. (1) The Committee shall, as soon asmay be, formulate a national policy for the 
of a natinoal betterment and welfare of the rural labour. 
policy for the 
welfare of rural (2 ) The national policy so formulated under sub -section ( 1) shall be uniformly 
labour. 

implemented throughout the country and the policy may incorporate provisions for 
uninterrupted work round the year, minimum remunerative wages, healthcare including 
maternity facilities, old age pension , compensation in case of accident and such other 

facilities as may be deemed necessary . 
Establishment 5. (1) The CentralGovernment shall,with effect from such date as may be specified by 
of Rural 

notification in the Official Gazette in this behalf, establish for the purposes of this Act, a 
Labour Welfare 

Fund to be called the RuralLabour Welfare Fund which shall be administered by the Central 
Fund. 

Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The Central Government shall after due appropriation made by Parliamentby law 
in this behalf , credit to the Fund in each financial year such sums ofmoney as it considers 
necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(3 ) The Fund shall also consist of the moneys received from — 


(a ) the Government of the States as contributions, towards the fund; 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


385 


(b ) the body corporates as donations ; 

(c) financial institutions and other institutions, domestic and foreign ones as 
assistance ; and 

(d ) donations from the employers and general public and bodies. 
(4 ) The Fund shall be utilized to promote the welfare measures for the rural labour 
which are necessary or expedient to do and in particular to defray the costs towards - 

(i) improving educational facilities for the children of rural based labour; 
(ii) improving water supply for drinking and other purposes; 

(iii ) improving the standard of living and nutrition for families of rural based 
labour ; 

(iv ) amelioration of social condition of ruralbased labour ; 
( v) providing housing and recreational facilities ; 
( vi) providing medical facilities to the rural based labour and their families; 

( vii) providing financial assistance in case of infirmity or disability due to 
accident etc .; 

(viii ) old age pension to the rural based labour; and 

(ix ) providing and improving the welfare measures included in the national 
policy and such other welfare measures as may be prescribed . 

6 . The Central Government may require a State Government or Union Territory State 
Administration or a local authority or any employer to furnish for the purposes of this Act, Government, 

etc . to furnish 
such information in such form and within such period as may be prescribed . 

the requisite 

information. 
7 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, it Appropriate 
shall be the duty of the appropriate Government to ensure availability of work round the Government to 

ensure 
year to the rural labour through the employers or in such manner as that Government may 

avaliability of 
deem expedient or necessary . 

work round the 
year to the 
rural labour. 


8 . The Central Government shall , after the inputs provided by the Governments of Annual 
the States and Union Territory Administrations, submit an annual report , in such form and Report . 
in such manner, as may be prescribed , of the administration of the Fund and other welfare 
activities carried out under this Act, to the President of India who shall cause the report to 
be laid before both the Houses of Parliament along with action taken thereon as soon as it 
is received . 

9 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Act to 
law for the timebeing in force regulating any of the matters dealt with in this Act. 

supplement 

other laws. 
10 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay , by notification in the Official Gazette , make Power to 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

make rules. 
(2 ) Every rule made under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is 
made , before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty 
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, 
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions 
aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses 
agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such 
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification 
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under 
that rule . 


386 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


It is rightly said that India lives in villages because nearly eighty per cent. of its 
population lives in the villages and mostly depends on agriculture and agro based 
occupations. There are farms, orchards, poultry farms, livestock rearing farms where rural 
based labour are employed . They work as weavers, small scale entrepreneurs , handicraft 
artisans, potters , cobblers , blacksmiths, etc . There are millions of such agricultural, home 
based and other workers who are unorganized and remain exploited and poor throughout 
their lives and live in distress from generations together. Their wages and income are meagre 
and they do not get employment round the year . As a result , they are poverty striken and 
remain neglected even by the State . None of the welfare laws like the Minimum Wages Act, 
1948 , the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, the Paymentof Gratuity Act , 1972 and the Workmen 
Compensation Act, 1923 applies in case of unorganised rural labour. During old , the rural 
labourers were not provided employment and therefore lacks money for food , medicines 
and clothes . The rural labourers do not have round the year employment and in case of 
agricultural sector, they get employment which is dependent on monsoon . 

In a welfare State , like ours, it is the duty of the State to introduce welfare measures 
for the have - nots like the ruralbased labour who remain unorganized and exploited . Hence , 
it is necessary to formulate a nationalwelfare policy for the rural based labour and constitute 
a Welfare Fund for them to ameliorate their living conditions. In pursuance of the said 
Policy , the Central and State Governments will implement the welfare measures contained 
in that policy and defray the costs to the Welfare Fund . 


Hence this Bill. 


SHRIRANG APPA BARNE 


NEW DELHI; 
February 12 , 2018 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


387 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the establishment of a National Rural Labour Welfare 
Committee. Clause 4 provides for formulation of a national policy for the betterment and 
welfare of the rural labour. Clause 5 provides for the establishment of Rural Labour Welfare 
Fund for which the Central Government shall provide funds in each financial year. The 
Bill, if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated 
that a sum of rupees five thousand crore may involve as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non - recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees one thousand crore may also involve 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 10 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of details only , the delegation 
of legislative power is of normal character. 


388 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 89 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India. 
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 
commencement . 


1. (1) This Act may be called Constitution ( Amendment) Act, 2017 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2 . After article 21A of the Constitution , the following article shall be inserted , 
namely : 


Insertion of a 
new article 
21B . 


Right to 
affordable 
medical care , 
etc . 


" 21B . The State shall provide affordable medical care , health insurance and 
healthcare facilities to every citizen in such manner as the State may, by law , 
determine . " 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


389 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


According to World Health Organization , " Health is a state of complete physical, 
mental and social wellbeing and notmerely the absence of disease ". In recent years, this 
statement has been amplified to include the ability to lead a socially and economically 
productive life . Right to health is not included as a fundamental right in the Indian 
Constitution . The Constitution makers imposed this duty on State to ensure social and 
economic justice. Part IV of the Constitution , the Directive Principles of State Policy directs 
the State to takemeasures to improve the condition of healthcare of the citizen . The Supreme 
Court, in Paschim Banga Khet Mazdoor Samity & Ors. vs. State of West Bengal & others , 
while widening the scope of article 21 and stressing the Government s responsibility to 
provide medical aid to every person in the country , held that in a welfare State , the primary 
duty of the Government is to secure the welfare of the people . 


Providing adequate medical facilities for the people is an obligation undertaken by 
the Government in a welfare State. The Governmentdischarges this obligation by providing 
medical care to the persons seeking to avail of those facilities. In light of the increased 
debate on expanding infrastructure in the healthcare sector and improved health indicators 
such as maternalmortality rate and infantmortality rate , the concept of Right to Affordable 
Healthcare assumes immense importance . 


The Bill , therefore , seeks to amend the Constitution with a view to make right to 
affordable medical care , health insurance and healthcare facilities as a Fundamental Right 
of every citizen of the country . 

Hence this Bill. 


SUSHIL KUMAR SINGH 


NEW DELHI; 
March 10 , 2017 


390 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 2 of the Bill seeks to provide for incorporation of right to affordable medical 
care, health insurance and healthcare facilities as a Fundamental Right of every citizen of 
the country. The Bill, therefore, if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure of about rupees five hundred crore 
will be involved per annum . 


No non- recurring expenditure is likely to be involved . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


391 


Bill No . 82 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1. ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, Short title and 
2017 . 

commencement. 


2 of 1974 . 


( 2) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Governmentmay , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2. In section 451 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973, 

Amendment 

of section 
(i) for the words " the Court may", the words " the Court shall, within sixty days 451. 
from the date such property is produced before it ,” shall be substituted ; and 

(ii) after the words " disposed of" , the words " in such manner , as may be prescribed 
by notification by the Central Government in consultation with the State Governments " 
shall be inserted . 


392 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Criminal litigation in India is a long drawn out process. Under the relevant criminal 
laws, any property related to the trial has to be confiscated or be kept in the custody of the 
police station for being recorded as evidence . Though the Code of Criminal Procedure , 
1973 provides for disposalof property pending trial, the absence of any time limit to adjudicate 
the disposal of property often leads to destruction of the said property as it is confiscated for 
a long time. The non -disposal of property such as vehicles, cement packets , foodgrains and 
other itemsleads to their decay and , subsequently , they become obsolete and non -usable . It 
is , therefore , recommended that a time-bound disposal of application for disposal of property 
which has been confiscated during the pendency of trial is essential. Such a time-bound 
decision will ensure that the property is not wasted and it doesn t become a burden for the 
police or the Court to continuously monitor the upkeep of such property . The State Government 
is also required to prescribe the rules and procedure for dealing with such property and 
ensuring that existing registration ofmovable property such as car is cancelled and the products 
are freshly auctioned in order to avoid any further hardship to the buyer or acquirer of the 
property. 


Hence this Bill . 


SUSHIL KUMAR SINGH 


NEW DELHI; 
March 11, 2017 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


393 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 2 of the Bill empowers the State Government to make rules for disposal of 
property subject to speedy and natural decay within sixty days of producing of such property 
before any criminal Court . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


394 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 217 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for effective regulation of the level of fluoride in groundwater and 
identification of the risk areas of fluoride contamination , formulation of a national 
policy for mitigating and preventing fluoride contamination in food and 
drinking water in the country for the overall welfare , care and 
protection of the citizens and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . (1 ) This Actmay be called the Flouride Contamination (Prevention ) Act, 2017 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may , by 
notification in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


395 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

Definitions . 
(a ) " fluoride " means a compound containing fluorine and another element or 
radical which is a natural mineral found throughout the earth s crust and widely 
distributed in nature ; 

(b ) " Authority " means the National Fluoride Contamination Prevention 
Authority established under section 4 ; 

(c) " groundwater" means naturally occurring water found below the surface in 
the saturated zone which can be extracted by digging wells and bores; and 

(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, National 
the Central Government shall as soon as may be after the commencement of the Act and in policy for 

prevention of 
consultation with the Government of the States, formulate a national policy for mitigating 

fluoride 
and preventing fluoride contamination in food and groundwater in the country for the overall contamination . 
welfare , care and protection of the citizens . 


4 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernment shall , as soon asmay be, by notification in the Official Establishment 
Gazette , establish and Authority to be called theNational Fluoride Contamination Prevention of National 

Fluoride 
Authority for the purposes of this Act. 

Contamination 
( 2) The head office of the Authority shall be at New Delhi and the Authority may 

Prevention 

Authority. 
establish offices at other places in the States and Union territories as it may deem necessary 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 
(3 ) The Authority shall consist of the following members , 

(a ) a Chairperson, who shall be an expert scientist having adequate knowledge 
and professional experience in the prevention of fluoride pollution , to be appointed 
by the Central Government ; 

(b ) one Deputy Chairperson with such qualifications as may be prescribed , to 
be appointed by the Central Government; 

( c ) five members of Parliament of whom three shall be from Lok Sabha and two 
from Rajya Sabha, to be nominated by the respective Presiding Officers of the two 
Houses ; 

( d ) five members , one each to represent the Union ministries of Drinking Water 
and Sanitation , Environment, Forest and Climate Change , Health and Family Welfare , 
Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and Panchayati Raj, respectively, to be appointed 
by the Central Government; 

(e ) four members to representthe non -Governmental Organisations working for 
prevention of fluoride pollution in food and ground water, to be appointed by the 
CentralGovernment; and 

(f) four members to be nominated by the Governments of the States to be 
rotated amongst the States in alphabetical order. 

(4 ) The Authority shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid having perpetual 
succession and common seal with power to acquire , hold and dispose of property both 
movable and immovable and to contract and shall by the said name sue and be sued . 

(5 ) The Salary and allowances payable to Chairperson , Deputy Chairperson and 
Members, terms of office of the Chairperson , Deputy Chairperson and members of the 
Authority and the procedure to be followed in the discharge of the functions of the Authority 
shall be such , as may be prescribed . 

(6 ) The Authority shall have a secretariat with such number of officers and staff as 
may be prescribed . 


396 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Functions of 
the Authority . 


(7 ) The salary and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of the 
officers and staff of the authority shall be such , asmay be prescribed . 

5 . ( 1) Subject to any guidelines issued by the Central Governmentunder the provisions 
of this Act,the Authority shall perform and undertake such special steps in close coordination 
with concerned Ministries and Departments of the Central and the State Governments to 
eliminate fluoride contamination and to afford the fluoride free drinking water and food to 
everyone throughout the country as it may deem necessary and expedient under this Act. 

(2 ) Without prejudice to be generality of the foregoing provisions, the Authority 
shall 


( a ) conduct survey at risk areas to determine the location, scale and causes of 
fluoride contamination ; 

(b ) conduct survey of irrigation wells to assess the risk of overuse and 
exploitation of ground water on agriculture and human health ; 

(c) develop awareness at all levels of society about the potential danger of 
fluoride in food and water ; 

(d ) assess the availability of low fluoride water resources for human 
consumption ; 

(e ) help farmers to adapt by maximizing rain fed production where alternative 
water source for irrigation are insufficient; 

(f) prioritise water supply and treatment intervention in worst affected areas; 

(g) establish local and affordable capability to testwater supplies where fluoride 
surveys have been completed ; 

(h ) coordinate and monitor time bound fluoride mitigation plants to eliminate 
fluoride exposure ; 

(i) identify alternative soft water sources and assess their sustainability ; 

(j) assess the effect of contaminated water to fluoride exposure specially on 
human health ; 

(k ) assess the likely impact of climate change on the increased demand for and 
reduced availability of groundwater; 

(1) assess the health effects of excessive exposure to fluoride and provide 
preventive medical assistance ; and 

(m ) such other activities as may be assigned from time to time. 
6 . The Central Government shall after due appropriation , made by Parliament by law 
in this behalf , pay to the authority in each financial year such sums as may be considered 
necessary and adequate for the performance of the functions of the Authority under this 
Act. 


Central 
Government to 
provide funds. 


Annual report. 


7 . The Authority shall prepare once every year, in such form and at such time as may 
be prescribed , an annual report giving summary of its activities during the previous year 
and submit it to the Central Government, which show cause the same to be laid before both 
the Houses of Parliament. 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


8 . (1 ) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government may , by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act , as appears to it to be necessary or expedient for 
removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of two years 
from the date of commencement of this Act. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


397 


(2 ) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be 
laid before both the Houses of Parliament. 

9. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Act to 
law for the time being applicable to the subject matter of this Act. 

supplement 

other laws. 
10 . (1 ) The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazette, make Power to 
rules to carry out the provisions of this Act. 

make rules . 
(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions, aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have affect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


398 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Fluorosis , a public health problem is caused by excess intake of fluoride through 
drinking water , food products and industrial pollutants over a long period . High concentrations 
of fluoride in groundwater are common in some of the semi-arid areas of Rajasthan , southern 
Punjab , Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu , Madhya Pradesh and southern Haryana. Several 
areas of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have high concentrations of fluoride in ground water 
(exceeding 5 mg/l). There are a number of cases of dental and skeletal fluorosis in these 
areas. In several parts of the country, fluoride concentrations of groundwater are more than 
the permissible level of 1.5mg/l in 11309 rural habitations in 230 districts of 20 States with 
an affected population of about 1. 12 crore. 

The Nalgonda fluorosis problem in the State of Telangana is a stigma that has stuck 
for generations, severely disabling skeletal fluorosis affects lakhs of people in justone district 
of the country. As per official estimates , there are 6 .5 lakh fluorosis affected patients , out of 
which there are around 75 ,000 severely skeletal fluorosis affected people. The extreme water 
stress and water scarcity situation in this region has resulted into around 5 .5 lakh deep 
borewells in just one single district . The fluoride problem has just increased over the past 
80 years, after it first got reported in the 1937 . 

The United Nations General Assembly s Human Right to Water and Sanitation 
resolution 64/292 passed in 28 July 2010 recognised the right to safe and clean drinking 
water and sanitation as a human right that is essential for the full enjoyment of life and all 
human rights . According to the Constitution of India, every citizen has a Right to clean water 
under the ambit of article 21 pertaining to Right to Life. 

Therefore , given the magnitude of the problem there is a need to provide safe drinking 
water to cover all water quality affected habitations with piped water supply schemes and an 
effective law to regulate the level of fluoride in groundwater and identification of risk areas 
for mitigating and preventing fluoride in food and groundwater. 

Hence this Bill. 


CH . MALLA REDDY 


NEW DELHI; 
November 27 , 2017 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


399 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for the establishment of Nation Fluoride Contamination 
Prevention Authority. Clause 6 makes it obligatory on the Central Government to provide 
necessary funds for the purposes of the Act. The Bill, therefore , if enacted , will involve 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees twenty 
five thousand crore will be involved as recurring expenditure per annum . 

Non - recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees six thousand crore will also be involved 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 

Clause 10 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of this Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


400 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 106 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for protection to and welfare measures for the bamboo , cane , 
screw pine and mat weavers and workers and their family members and 

for matters connected therewith . 
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty- eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Bamboo , Cane , Screw pine and Mat Weavers and 
Workers (Welfare ) Act, 2017. 


commencement. 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification 
in the Official Gazette appoint . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


401 


Definitions. 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the CentralGovernment; 


of National 


(b ) " Authority " means the National Bamboo , Cane , Screw pine, Mat Weavers 
and Workers Welfare Authority established under section 3 ; 

(c ) " Fund" means the National Bamboo, Cane, Screw pine, Mat Weavers and 
Workers Welfare Fund constituted under section 5 ; 

(d ) " bamboo , cane, screw pine and mat weaver" means a person engaged in the 
planting , nursing, cutting , transporting , storing , processing , weaving , value adding , 
distributing , exhibiting or selling bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat; 

(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 

(f) "worker" means a bamboo , cane , screw pine or mat weaver engaged in the 
production of bamboo , cane, screw pine or mat and who earns wages on daily , weekly, 
monthly or any other basis . 

3 . ( 1) The Central Government shall, as soon as may be , by notification in the Establishment 
Official Gazette , establish an Authority to be known as the National Bamboo , Cane, 

Bamboo , Cane, 
Screw Pine , Mat Weavers and Workers Welfare Authority for carrying out the purposes 

Screw Pine and 
of this Act. 

Mat Weavers 
(2 ) The Authority shall consist of 

and Workers 

Welfare 
(a ) a Chairperson having adequate knowledge and professional experience in Authority . 
bamboo , cane, screw pine and mat weaving sector; 

(b ) a Deputy Chairperson with such qualification , as may be prescribed ; 

(c) three members to represent bamboo , cane, screw pine and mat weaving 
sector cooperatives and State Government undertakings; 

(d ) three members to represent bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat weaving 
sector and worker of the registered trade unions; 

(e) four members to represent the Union Ministries of Finance , Planning , Labour 
and Employment and Textiles, 

to be appointed by the CentralGovernment in such manner, as maybe prescribed ; 

(f) four members to be nominated by the State Governments on rotation basis 
in alphabetical order ; and 

(g ) five members of Parliament, ofwhom three shall be from the House of the 
People and two shall be from Council of States, to be nominated by the Presiding 
Officers of the respective Houses. 

( 3) The Authority shall be a body corporate by the name aforesaid , having perpetual 
succession and common seal, with power to acquire , hold and dispose of property , both 
movable and immovable, and to contract and shall, by the said name, sue or be sued . 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
the Chairperson , Deputy Chairperson and members of the Authority and the procedure to 
be followed in the discharge of the functions of the Authority shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 

(5 ) The Headquarter of the Authority shall be at New Delhi. 

(6 ) The Authority shall establish its zonal offices in the States of Kerala , Assam , 
Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra . 


(7) The Authority may establish its offices at such other places, as it may deem 
necessary, for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


402 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Functions of 
the Authority . 


(8 ) The Authority shall have a secretariat with such Officers and staff having such 
terms and conditions of services as may be prescribed . 

4 . ( 1) The Authority shall , in coordination with the State Governments, take steps 
for the overall welfare of workers including, removal of poverty and indebtedness , 
raising the standard of living, modernizing the looms and making easy availability of 
raw materials at affordable prices and marketing of products of bamboo , cane, screw 
pine and mat. 

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision , the Authority 
shall, — 

(a ) formulate and implement welfare policy for the bamboo , cane , screw pine 
and mat weavers and workers ; 


(b ) maintain a District-wise register of bamboo, cane , screw pine and mat 
weavers and workers with such particulars and in such manner asmay be prescribed ; 


( c ) regulate the service conditions of workers in such manner as may be 
prescribed ; 

(d ) fix minimum wages for bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat weavers and 
workers from time to time; 

(e ) ensure modernization of techniques of plants, producing and value adding 
of bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat weaver products ; 


(f) encourage and provide all necessary assistance to bamboo , cane, screw pine 
and mat weavers cooperatives; 

( g ) organize exhibitions, melas and such other activities to promote products 
of bamboo , cane, screw pine and mat in different parts of the country ; 


(h ) make suitable arrangements for purchase of products of bamboo , cane, 
screw pine and mat weavers by Government department undertakings and agencies 
on cash and carry basis ; 

(i) encourage export of bamboo , cane, screw pine and weavers products; and 

(j) perform such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Central 

Government from time to time. 
Constitution of 

5 . ( 1) The Central Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette , 
Bamboo , Cane, constitute a Fund to be called the Bamboo , Cane , Screw Pine and Mat Weavers and Workers 
Screw Pine and Welfare Fund . 
Mat Weavers 
and Workers 

(2 ) The Central Government and the State Governments shall contribute to the Fund 
Welfare Fund. 

in such ratio as may be prescribed . 

(3 ) There shall also be credited to the Fund such other sums as may be received by 
way of donations , contributions , assistance or otherwise from individuals and ogranisations. 

(4 ) The Fund shall be utilized for — 


(a ) providing interest free consumption loans to bamboo , cane, screw pine and 
mat weavers and workers ; 

(b ) making ex - gratia payments at prescribed rates to each of the bereaved families 
of bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat weavers who die in harness; 

(c ) providing loans at nominal rate of interest for purchasing necessary raw 
materials to the bamboo, cane , screw pine and mat weavers and workers; 


(d ) providing insurance cover to all bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat weavers 
and workers ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


403 


materials . 


(e ) providing healthcare facilities to the bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat 
weavers and workers and their dependent family members ; 

(1) providing educational facilities and vocational training to the wards of bamboo , 
cane , screw pine and mat weavers and workers; and 

(g ) such other welfare measures as may be prescribed . 
6 . ( 1) It shall be the duty of the Central Government to ensure regular supply of raw Central 
materials to the bamboo, cane , screw pine and mat weavers and workers at affordable and Government to 
subsidized rates. 

ensure regular 

supply of raw 
(2 ) It shall be compulsory for all Ministries , Departments and Subordinate Offices 
under the appropriate Government and Public Sector Enterprises to purchase their entire 
finished goods requirements exclusively from the primary bamboo , cane , screw pine and 
mat weavers and workers. 

( 3) The appropriate Governmentshall take steps to minimize the export of raw material 
used for products of bamboo , cane, screw pine and mat weavers and workers. 

7. The Central Government shall , after due appropriation made by Parliament by law Central 
in this behalf , provide to the Authority such sums as it may consider necessary for the efficient Government to 
functioning of the Authority . 

provide Funds. 
8 . (1 ) The Authority shall prepare, in such form and manner, as may be prescribed , an Annual Report. 
annual report giving a true and full account of its activities during the previous year and 
submit it to the Central Government. 

(2) The CentralGovernment shall cause to be laid before each House of the Parliament 
the report submitted to it under sub -section (1 ). 

9 . (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act , the Central Power to 
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions, not remove 

difficulties . 
in consistent with the provisions of this Act , as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for 
removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of the period of two years 
from the date of the commencement of this Act. 


(2 ) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made , be 
laid before each House of the Parliament. 


10 . The Provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
law for the time being in force regulating any of the matters dealt with in this Act. 


Act not in 
derogation of 
any other law 
for time being 
in force. 


11 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay, by notification in the Official Gazette , make Power to make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

rules . 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


404 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Bamboo , cane , screw pine and mat industry is one of the largest segments in the 
unorganized sector. It is a traditional industry and hence has a unique place in our economy. 
This sector has sustained itself by transferring skills from one generation to another. Adoption 
of modern techniques has become an urgent necessity because the sector faces challenges of 
extinction due to the ill effects of economic liberalization . The scarcity of raw materials , 
absence of human resource with modern skills , lack of research and development and 
innovation are the threats for this traditioinal industry .More than one million families depend 
on the sector directly. And hence this Bill is of an urgent nature . 

The workers in this sector mostly belong to the Scheduled Castes , the Scheduled Tribes, 
Other Backward Classes and minority categories . The majority of them are women workers. 
The sector is not doing very well and is on the verge of collapse and extinction. The foremost 
reason for this is non - availability of raw materials at affordable prices and non -availability 
of loans at low interest rate from banks and other financial institutions to this sector for 
purchasing raw material and other necessary items. The facility of marketing for bamboo 
products is also a handicap for these poor people. The most disturbing and sad part is that 
most of the workers engaged in bamboo, cane , screw pine and mat industry are alarmingly 
poor. The problem is further compounded by powerful lobbying from the exporters of raw 
materials. Bamboo , cane, screw pine and mat weavers and workers have been at the receiving 
end due to changes shaped by globalization and transient socio -economic conditions . For 
decades ,most bamboo , cane , screw pine and matweavers and workers never had any access 
to various policies and schemes meant for their growth and benefit . On the other hand , 
Governmentdepartments and implementing agencies do not have adequate information and 
data that would have helped in increasing the reach of such programmes and policies. There 
has been , thus, a widening gap between policy formulation and implementation . 

It is, therefore , proposed to constitute a National Bamboo , Cane , Screw pine and Mat 
Weavers and Workers Authority to take steps for welfare and overall development of weavers 
and workers engaged in the sector and for promotion and effective implementation of policies 
of this sector in the country . 

Hence this Bill. 


A . SAMPATH 


NEW DELHI; 
February 13 , 2017. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


405 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill seeks to establish the National Bamboo , Cane , Screw pine and 
Mat Weavers and Workers Welfare Authority . Clause 4 provides for certain steps to be taken 
by the Authority for welfare of Bamboo , Cane, Screw pine and Mat Weavers and Workers. 
Clause 5 provides for the constitution of Bamboo, Cane , Screw pine and Mat Weavers and 
Workers. Clause 6 provides that the CentralGovernment shall ensure supply of raw materials 
to Bamboo, Cane, Screw pine and Mat Weavers and Workers. Clause 7 provides that the 
Central Government shall provide fundsto the Authority . The Bill , therefore, if enacted , will 
involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring 
expenditure of about rupees two hundred crores per annum would be involved from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure of rupees fifty crores is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


406 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 202 OF 2017 


A Bill further to amend the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title, and 
commencement. 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Reserve Bank of India (Amendment) Act, 2017 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint: 

Provided that different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act and 
any reference in any such provision to the commencement of this Act shall be construed as 
a reference to the commencement of that provision . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


407 


2 of 1934 . 


Amendment of 
section 2 . 


2 . In section 2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (hereinafter referred to as the 
principal Act), - 

(a ) the existing clause ( aii ) and (aiii ) shall be re- numbered as clauses (ai) and ( aii ), 
respectively and before the clause ( ai) as so re -numbered , the following clause shall be 
inserted , namely : 

" (a ) " annual report " means the annual report of the bank under this Act;"; 
(b ) after clause ( cii), the following clause shall be inserted , namely: 

( ciii) “ Inquiry Committee” means the Inquiry Committee constituted under 
section 11A ;""; 


(c ) after clause (ccc), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

" (ccci) “ non - Executive Director” means a Director of Central Board other 
than the Governor, Deputy Governor and Government nominated Director;" ; 
(d ) after clause (cccci), the following clause shall be inserted , namely: 

" (ccccii ) " publish " means publishing of information in manner best suited 
to bring it to attention of the person who are affected by the information and to 
public at large , including by way of electronic means, as soon as may be 
practicable ;" ; and 
(e ) after clause (cv ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

" (cvi ) " regulations" means the regulations made under this Act ;" . 
3. In section 7 of the principal Act, for sub -section (3), the following sub -sections 
shall be substituted , namely: 

" ( 3 ) The Central Board may , by notification in the Official Gazette, make 
regulations delegating the functions of the Board to the Governor or any other Director 
or employee of the Bank , subject to any condition that may be provided in the 
regulations, as the case may be : 


Amendment of 
section 7 . 


Provided that the Central Board shall not delegate the functions mentioned under 
sub -section ( 4 ) of this section , sub -section (7 ) of section 45ZT, sub -section ( 3 ) of 
section 45ZU and sub - section ( 1A ) of section 58 of this Act. 


( 4 ) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the Governor, and in his absence a 
Deputy Governor nominated by him in this behalf shall have the powers of the general 
direction and control in respect of all administrative matters of the Bank . 


(5 ) The Central Board shall review the performance of the Bank in giving effect 
to the objectives , carrying out the functions and utilizing the resources of the bank in 
such manner as may be prescribed . 
4 . In section 8 of the principal Act , 

(a ) in sub -section (1), 


Amendment of 
section 8 . 


(i) in clause (a ) for the words " notmore than four" , the words " at least two 
and notmore than four " shall be substituted ; 


( ii ) clause (b ) shall be omitted ; and 

( iii) for clause (c ), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" (c ) at least two and notmore than five non -Executive Directors to be appointed 
by the Central Government;" ; 

(iv ) in clause ( d ) for the words " two Government Officials" , the words " at 
least one and not more than two Government officials " shall be substituted ; 


408 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Amendment of 
section 10 . 


(b ) in sub- section (3 ), — 

(i) the words " A Deputy Governor and " shall be omitted ; and 

(ii) the proviso thereto shall be omitted ; 
( C) in sub - section (4 ) for the words " not exceeding five years", the words "which 
shall not be less than three years but which may extend upto five years" ; and 
(d ) after sub - section (7), the following sub -section shall be inserted , namely : 

" (8 ) The terms on which a Director is appointed shall not be varied to his 
disadvantage after appointment.". 
5 . In section 10 of the principal Act, 

(i) in sub - section ( 1), after clause (e), the following clauses shall be inserted , 
namely : 

" (f) is a Member of Parliament, State Legislature , a local legislature under 
Part VIII of the Constitution of India , a Panchayat or a Municipality ; 

(8 ) has served as the Chairperson of other financial regulators namely 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority and Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority." ; and 
(ii) after sub - section ( 3), the following sub -section shall be inserted , namely: 

" (4 ) A person cannot be appointed as the Director if that person is a Director 
of the Monetary Policy Committee constituted under section 45ZB unless that 
person is the Governor or a Deputy Governor designated to serve on the Monetary 

Policy Committee . 
6 . After section 10 of the principalAct,the following section shall be inserted , namely : 


Insertion of 
new section 
10A . 


Selection of 
certain 
Directors . 


" 10A . (1) The Central Government shall, for the purposes of nomination of 
Directors under clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 8 , constitute a Selection 
Committee for shortlisting of persons to be appointed as a Director in accordance with 
provision of the Sixth Schedule . 

(2 ) The Selection Committee constituted under sub -section ( 1) shall follow the 
procedure laid down in the Sixth Schedule . 

(3) The Selection Committee shall,while considering the shortlisting of persons 
to be appointed as Directors , take into account following factors , 

(a ) merit ; 
(b ) balance of the central board ; 
(c ) independence ; and 
(d ) conflict of interest. 
Explanation. — For the purposes of sub -section ( 3), 

(a ) "merit" means qualifications, experience and expertise , as per the 
conditions of eligibility for appointment to the Central Board of that Financial 
Agency ; 

(b ) " balance of the Central Board " means that the Central Board 
proportionately and adequately represents different skills and expertise as per 
the conditions of eligibility for Directors ; 

(c) " indpendence " means the ability to maintain and exercise independent 
judgement in the discharge of duties; and 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


409 


Amendment of 
section 11 . 


( d ) " conflict of interest" means that person appointed do not have interests 
which may conflict with the duties of that Director." . 
7 . In section 11 of the principal Act, 

(i) in sub -section ( 2) , the words clause (b ) or shall be omitted ; 
( ii ) after sub - section (3 ), the following sub -section shall be inserted , namely : 

" (3A ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section ( 3), the Central 
Government shall remove from office any Director if he has 

(a ) been adjudged insolvent; 

(b ) been sentenced to imprisonment for one hundred and eighty days or 
more ; 


(c ) been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude; 

(d ) acquired any financial or other interest contrary to the terms and 
conditions of his service that is likely to prejudice his functions; 


(e ) failed to adequately disclose any direct or indirect pecuniary interest; 
(f) made any materialmisrepresentation to the Selection Committee ; 

(8 ) abused his position so as to render his continuance in office prejudicial 
to the objectives of the Bank ; 

(h ) become physically incapable of discharging his duties; and 

(i) become of unsound mind ." 
(iii) in sub - section (5 ), the words " The nomination as Director ormember of a 
Local Board of any person who is a Member of Parliament or the Legislature of any 
State shall be void , unless, within two months of the date of his nomination , he ceases 
to be such member, and ," shall be omitted . 
8 . After section 11 of the principal Act,the following section shall be inserted , namely: - 


Insertion of 
new sections 
11A and 11B . 


" 11A . (1 ) The CentralGovernmentshall, for the purposes ofremoval of a Director Procedure for 
appointed under this Act, constitute an Inquiry Committee to inquire into the grounds 

removal of a 

Director. 
specified in sub -section ( 3A ) of section 11 for removal of a Director. 
(2 ) The Inquiry Committee shall consist of, — 

(a ) two sitting or retired judges of the Supreme Court or a High Court ; 


and 


(b ) one independent expert having experience in the field of finance 
and public administration, to be nominated by the Central Government, in 
consultation with the Chief Justice of India in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 

(3 ) The Inquiry Committee shall be chaired by the senior-most judge from 
amongst the judges nominated under clause (a ) of sub -section ( 2). 
(4) The Inquiry Committee shall, prior to removal of a Director from his office , — 

( a ) issue him an inquiry notice ; and 

(b ) provide him a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
( 5) The CentralGovernment shall provide the Inquiry Committee, in writing, all 
facts and information relevant for the removal of the Director. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(6 ) The Inquiry Committee shall , within thirty days from the date of issue of 
notice under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 4 ), submit a written report to the Central 
Govenrment stating , — 

(a ) whether the grounds on which the Central Government proposes to 
remove the director have been met; and 

(b ) the facts and reasons in support of its opinion . 
(7) If the report of the Inquiry Committee under sub - section (6 ) states that any 
ground for removal has been met, then the CentralGovernment shall publish , — 

(a ) a notification for removal of the Director from the Central Board ; and 

(b ) the report made under sub -section (6 ). 
(8 ) Every notification under clause (a ) of sub -section (7) shall be published 
within a period of thirty days from the date of submission of the report by the Inquiry 
Committee : 

Provided that if the Central Government had issued a suspension order under 
section 11B then the notification shall be published within a period of fifteen days 
from the date of submission of the report by the Inquiry Committee. 

(9) The Director shall cease to hold office from the date of publication of the 
notification under sub - section (7 ). 

Explanation . For the purposes of his section , " inquiry notice" means a notice 
which 

( a ) is in writing ; 
(b ) states the grounds on which the Director is proposed to be removed ; 

(c) contains all the facts and information provided to the Inquiry Committee 
by the Central Government; and 

(d ) allows the Director to make written representations to the Inquiry 
Committee against such proposed removal within a reasonable time stated in 
that notice . 

( 10 ) The Central Government shall allocate adequate resources to the Inquiry 
Committee for carrying out its functions efficiently. 

11B . ( 1) Where the Central Board is satisfied that any of the grounds mentioned 
under sub -section ( 3A ) of section 11 for removal of a Director have been met, itmay 
recommend to the CentralGovernment the temporary suspension of such Director. 

( 2) Every recommendation made under sub -section ( 1) to the CentralGovernment 
shall , — 

(a ) be in writing and signed by all Directors of the Central Board; and 

(b ) not bind the CentralGovernment to suspend the concerned Director. 
( 3 ) Where the Central Government accepts the recommendation of the Central 
Board , it shall 

(a ) issue a suspension order ; and 

(b ) constitute the Inquiry Committee within fifteen days from the date of 
issue of such suspension order. 

(4 ) The Inquiry Committee shall, in writing , recommend the temporary suspension 
of a Director to the Central Government which shall be binding on it . 
(5) Every suspension order issued under sub -section ( 3) shall, — 

(a ) be in writing; 

(b ) be made after giving the concerned Director a reasonable opportunity 
of being heard ; 


Procedure for 
suspension of a 
Director. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


411 


(c ) state the reasons for suspension ; 

(d ) be accompanied with the recommendation of the Central Board or the 
Inquiry Committee , as the case may be ; and 

(e ) cease to have effect on the date on which the Inquiry Committee submits 
its report under sub -section (6 ) of section ( 11A ). 

(6 ) The Central Government may reverse a suspension order issued under 
sub -section ( 3 ) if , — 


(a ) the recommendation for suspension made by the Central Board and 
the Inquiry Committee has not been established , on a written recommendation 
of the Central Board signed by all directors of the Central Board ; and 

(b ) in all other cases, on a written recommendation by the Inquiry 
Committee . 


(7 ) Every Director suspended under this section shall be entitled to such salary , 
allowances and other benefits as per the conditions of service applicable to him ." . 
9. In section 12 of the principal Act, 

Amendment of 

section 12 . 
(i) in sub - section (1), after words " appoint", the words ",within fifteen days 
from the date of occurrence of vacancy," shall be inserted ; 

(ii ) in sub -section (4 ), after words " Central Government", the words " within 
one-hundred and twenty days from the occurrence of the vacancy" shall be inserted ; and 

(iii) after sub - section (4), the following proviso shall be inserted , namely: 

" Provided that the casual vacancy shall notreduce the minimum strength of the 
Central Board below six ." . 

10 . For section 13 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted , Substitution of 
namely : 

new section for 

section 13 . 
" 13 . ( 1) Every meeting of the Central Board shall be held in accordance with the Meetings of the 
provisions of the Seventh Schedule. 

Central Board . 
(2 ) The Central Board shall make regulations consistent with the requirements 
of the Seventh Schedule to regulate the proceedings of its meetings. 

(3 ) The Central Board shall discharge its duties by taking decisions through a 
majority vote of the Directors present at the meeting . 

( 4 ) Every director shall have one vote : 

Provided that if there is an equality of votes, the person chairing the meeting 
shall, unless otherwise stipulated in the regulations have a casting vote . 

( 5) Any Director who has any direct or indirect interest in anymatter likely to 
come up for consideration at a meeting of the Central Board shall , as soon as possible , 
after the relevant circumstances have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of 
his interest to the Central Board . 

(O ) Every disclosure made by a Director under sub -section ( 5) shall be recorded 
in the proceedings of the meeting of the Central Board at which the matter comes up 
for discussion and that Director shall recuse from any deliberation or decision of the 
Central Board with respect to that matter . 

(7 ) No act or proceeding of the Central Board shall be invalid merely by reason 
of,— 

(a ) any vacancy or defect, in the constitution of the board ; or 
(b ) any defect in the appointment of a person as a director; or 


412 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(c) any violation of the regulations of the Bank not affecting themerits of 
the decision ." . 
11. After Chapter IIIF of the principal Act, the following new Chapter IIIG shall be 
inserted namely : 


Insertion of 
new Chapter 
MIIF . 


" CHAPTER IIIG 


ACCOUNTABILITY MECHANISM FOR BANK 


Review of 
performance of 
Central Board . 


45ZP. (1 ) The Central Board shall evaluate the performance of each Director in 
such manner as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The Central Board shall make regulations stipulating the process to be 
followed by it for evaluating the performance of its Directors, including the requirement 
of a Director to recuse himself from deliberations or decisions involving an evaluation 
of his performance . 

45ZQ . ( 1) The Central Board shall establish an Audit Committee consisting of 
at least two non - executive Directors to review whether 

(a ) the Bank is in compliance with applicable laws; 

(b ) the regulations of the Bank promote transparency and best practices of 
governance ; 


Audit 
Committee. 


(c ) the Bank is in compliance with the decisions of the Central Board ; and 

(d ) the Bank is managing risks to its functioning in a reasonable manner. 
(2 ) The Audit Committee shall make a report, at least once every financial year, 
of its findings under this section , to the Central Board and the report shall be attached 
with the annual report. 

(3) The Audit Committee shall maintain a system by which any person may 
communicate to the Audit Committee, any incidence of — 


(a ) violation of laws by the Bank ; 
(b ) theft or misappropriation of resources of the Bank by any person ; 

(c ) abuse of powers of the Bank by any Director, employee or agent of the 
Bank ; or 

(d ) violation of any decision ofthe Central Board by any Director, employee 
or agent of the Bank . 

(4 ) The Central Board shall make regulations governing information to be 
provided to the Audit Committee , and the provision of adequate resources to enable 
the Audit Committee to discharge its functions under this Act effectively . 

(5 ) Every director of the Audit Committee shall not serve for more than five 
years continuously in that Committee . 

45ZR . (1 ) The Bank shall maintain a website or any other universally accessible 
repository of electronic information to 

( a ) publish all information that the Bank is obliged to publish under this 
Act or any other law ; 

(b ) provide a copy of all rules , regulations, regulations made and all 
guidance issued ,by the Bank including all amendments to these rules, regulations, 
regulations and guidance ; 

(c ) provide information about the manner in which applications to the 
Bank are to be made; and 


Publication of 
Information . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


413 


(d ) provide material information about the functions of the Bank . 
(2 ) The Central Board shall review the quality of the website or other repository , 
based on international best practices, at least once every three years. 

( 3 ) The Central Board shall prepare and publish the report regarding the findings 
of the review conducted under sub -section (2 ) of this section along with the annual 


report. 


(4 ) The Bank may make regulations for effective implementation of the provisions 
of this section . 

( 5) Any information not published on the website or other universally accessible 
repository of the Bank as per the requirements of this section shall be presumed to not 
have been published , for the purposes of this Act. 

45ZS . ( 1) The Bank shall prepare a report of expenditure with respect to each of Allocation and 
its functions and objectives for each financial year. 

use of resources 

by the Bank . 
(2 ) The Bank shall maintain a system of allocation of resources to carry out its 
functions and meet its objectives as stated in its report of expenditure . 

( 3) The Central Government may prescribe additional reports which the Bank 
shall prepare relating to its expenditure. 

(4 ) The Central Board shall , at least once every three years, review the quality 
of the report of Bank and its system of allocation of resources to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of this section . 

( 5) The reports of expenditure shall be published with the annual report of the 
Bank in such manner as may be prescribed . 

45ZT. ( 1) The Bank shall develop a system to measure its performance of each Performance 
function required to be carried out, and the efficiency with which that function was and the 

efficiency of 
discharged . 

the Bank. 
(2 ) The Bank shall made regulations setting out the system of measurement 
referred to in sub -section ( 1). 

( 3 ) The Bank shall lay down goals for the discharge of each function imposed 
on it by this Act for the financial year. 

(4 ) The Bank shallmeasure its efficiency in relation to its functions in accordance 
with the system developed under sub - section (1) in a reasonable and objective manner 
for each financial year. 

(5) The Bank shall at the end of each financial year prepare a report comparing 
information from sub - section (4 ) with the goals that were set for the financial year 
under sub - section ( 3) . 

(6 ) The Central Government shall prescribe additional reports which the Bank 
shall make relating to the performance and discharge of its functions . 

(7) The Central Board shall , at least once every three years, review the quality 
of the report made under sub - section (6 ) to ensure compliance with the requirements 
of this section . 

(8 ) The report of efficiency and performance shall be published with the annual 
report. 

Explanation . — For the purposes of this section , " reasonable and objective 
manner" , in relation to the system of measurement includes, 

(a ) a system of measurement that best represents any function being 
measured ; 


414 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Returns and 
Reports. 


(b) a standardised system that allows comparison , where possible; and 

(c) quantititive systems of measurement, where possible. 
45ZU . (1) The Bank shall furnish to the CentralGovernment at such time reports, 
and in such manner and form containing such returns, statements and particulars , with 
regard to proposed or existing operations of the Bank as may be prescribed . 

( 2) The Bank shall prepare and transmit to the Central Government a weekly 
account of the Issue Department and of the Banking Department in such form as the 
CentralGovernment may, by notification in the Gazette of India , prescribe . 

( 3) The Central Government shall cause every account mentioned under 
sub - section (2 ) to be published in the Gazette of India at such intervals and in such 
modified form as it may deem fit . 

(4 ) The Central Board shall submit to the CentralGovernment an annual report 
within ninety days from the end of every financial year. 

( 5 ) The Central Board shall publish the annual report on the same day as or 
before the date on which it is submitted to the CentralGovernment. 

(6 ) The annual report shall be in such manner and form as may be prescribed , 
and must give a true and full account of the performance of the Bank in the previous 
financial year including , — 

(a ) a review of its activities in relation to the discharge of its functions 
and the achievement of its objectives ; and 

(b ) all information that is necessary to understand the discharge of functions 
and the achievement of the objectives that has been published by the Bank . 
(7) The annual report shall contain , — 

(a ) the report of the Review Committee established under section 45ZQ ; 

(b ) findings of the review of the quality of the website or other repository 
made under section 45ZR ; 

(c) report of expenditure submitted under section 45ZS ; 

(d ) report on the performance and efficiency of the Bank submitted under 
section 45ZT; 


(e ) certified accounts , audit report , and the observations of the Central 
Board made under section 45ZV ; 


(f) with respect to the Bank , 


(i) description of the business of the Central Government carried 
outby the Bank ; and 


( ii ) description of the business of State Governments carried out by 
the Bank . 


( g) a statement of the deliberations of the Bank accompanied by the 
records of its meetings ; 


(h ) a statement indicating any statutory obligation that the Bank or the 
central board has not complied with , and reasons for such non - compliance ; 

(i) a statement by the Governor,in relation to the activities and performance 
of the Bank ; 

(j) a statement of major activities the Bank is planning to undertake in the 
subsequent financial year; and 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


415 


(k ) a statement which any director of the central board may wish to 
include . 


( 8 ) The Central Government shall lay a copy of the annual report, as soon as 
possible , after its receipt before each House of Parliament, for a total period of thirty 
working days to be calculated in the manner specified under sub -section (4 ) of section 
58 of this Act. 

45ZV. ( 1) The Bank shall , in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor- Accounts and 
General of India maintain accounts and other relevant records and audit prepare an Audit. 
annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The Bank , shall, while preparing its financial statements, comply with 
accounting standards to the extent that is in the opinion of the Central Board appropriate 
to do so having regard to the objects and functions of the Bank . 

(3 ) The accounts ofthe Bank shallbe audited annually by the Government auditor. 

(4 ) The audit by the Government auditor shall not include an audit of performance 
of the Bank . 


( 5 ) The Government auditor, shall, - 


(a ) certify the accounts of the Bank ; and 


(b ) make an audit report . 
(6 ) The Government auditor shall be provided at all reasonable times access 
to the books , accounts and other documents of the Bank, and may, at the expense of 
the Bank , employ accountants or other persons to assist him in investigating such 
accounts, and may, in relation to such accounts, examine any Director or Officer of 
the Bank . 


(7 ) The certified accounts and the audit report must be placed before the Audit 
Committee and the Central Board , which must record its observations on the audit 
report. 


( 8 ) In relation to the audit of the accounts of the Bank, the Government auditor 
shall not audit 


( a ) the deliberations , decisions or minutes of the Monetary Policy 
Committee constituted under this act and the actions of the Bank in relation to 
implementingmonetary policy decisions ; 

(b ) the transactions by the Bank to provide any kind of short term , temporary 
and emergency liquidity system in order to maintain the stability of the economy 
and credit system of India ; 

( c ) any part of a discussion or communication between Directors of the 
Central Board , Directors of the Monetary Policy Committee, and officers and 
employees of the Reserve Bank mentioned under clauses (a ) and (b ). 

(9 ) The Bank shall preserve such audit records for such period of time and in 
such manner as may be prescribed . 

Explanation . For the purposes of this section , "Government auditor" means 
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India, or any other person appointed by the 
Comptroller and Auditor-General of India in this regard ." . 
12 . Sections 50 , 51, 52 and 53 of the principal Act shall be omitted . 


Omission of 
sections 50 , 51, 
52 and 53 . 


416 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Amendment of 
section 58 . 


Insertion of 
Sixth and 
Seventh 
Schedules . 


13. In section 58 of the principal Act, after sub -section (1 ), the following section shall 
be inserted , namely : 

" (1A ) The Central Board shall approve each and every regulation proposed to 
be made by the Bank on the basis of an analysis of costs and benefits with respect to 
the regulations proposed , carried out by the Bank , among other things." . 

14 . After the Fifth Schedule to the principal Act, the following Schedules shall be 
inserted , namely : 

" SIXTH SCHEDULE 
SELECTION COMMITTEE 

( See section 10A ) 
( 1) Constitution of Selection Committee : 

(a ) The Central Government shall maintain a list of at least ten independent 
experts from the fields of finance , law , and economics who are available to serve as 
experts on the selection committee . 

Explanation . For the purposes of item ( a ), " independent" means independent 
of the Central Government, State Government and the Bank . 
(b ) The Selection Committee shall comprise, 

(i) a Chairperson of the selection committee ; 
( ii ) three independent experts ; and 

(iii) a variable Director as defined in item (e ) of this paragraph . 
(c ) The Chairperson shall be a nominee of the Central Government. 

(d ) The Chairperson of the Selection Committee shall select the three independent 
experts from the list maintained under item (a ). 


(e ) The variable Director shall be, 

(i) a nominee of the Central Government for the selection ofGovernor of 
the Bank ; and 

(ii) the Governor for selection of all other Directors of the Bank . 
(f) The Central Government shall provide the Selection Committee with adequate 
resources to advertise the vacancies in the office for which selection is made and carry 
out the selection in an efficientmanner. 


(2 ) Procedure to be followed by the Selection Committee : 

( a ) The Selection Committee shall make a document stating the procedure it 
shall follow for selecting from candidates . 

(b ) The procedure shall be fair, transparent and efficient. 


(c ) The selection Committee shall advertise the vacancy and the procedure for 
selecting from candidates to attract the attention of suitable candidates. 

(d ) The selection Committee may consider candidates who have not applied 
after recording reasons for considering such candidates . 

(e ) The Selection Committee may nominate up to two candidates for every 
vacancy for which it has been constituted . 

(1) The Selection Committee shall complete its selection procedure within one 
hundred days of being constituted which may be extend by twenty more days with 
permission of the Central Government. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


417 


SEVENTH SCHEDULE 
PROCEDURE FOR MEETINGS OF CENTRAL BOARD 

(See section 13 ) 
(1) The Central Board shall meet as frequently and at such place as may be stipulated 
in the regulations. 

(2 ) The Governor of the Bank shall chair meetings of the Central Board and if Governor 
is not present, the person who has served as Director for the longest period of time shall 
chair the meeting , unless otherwise stipulated in the regulations . 

(3 ) If two or more Directors of the Central Board request a meeting in writing , the 
Governor shall convene a meeting of the Central Board within thirty days of such request, 
failing which the directors seeking the meeting may convene the meeting without theGovernor 
after the lapse of the thirty day period . 

( 4 ) Subject to at least one physical meeting in a year, the Directors may attend meetings 
of the Central Board by suitable technological means withoutbeing physically present. 

(5 ) The quorum for a meeting of the board shall be more than half of the total number 
of directors save the director (s ) nominated by the Central Government. 


(6 ) Each Director shall be given at least seven days prior written notice of a meeting . 

(7 ) In special circumstances, a shorter notice of a meeting may be given , and such 
circumstances shall be clearly recorded at thatmeeting. 

(8) The Secretary of the Central Board will be responsible for keeping the records of 
every meeting of the central board . 

(9) The records shall be published by the Bank within three weeks of each meeting . 
(10) Selected portions of recordsmay be published with appropriate delay if, they, — 

(a ) relate exclusively to the conduct of individuals with regard to the performance 
of their functions within the Bank ; 

(b ) relate to information that has been obtained from a person in confidence, 
where such information is exempt from disclosure by that person under the Right to 
Information Act, 2005 ; 

(c) involve discussion of a particular instance of violation of laws or censuring 
any person ; 

(d ) disclose information about a particular investigation which is ongoing ; 
(e ) disclose techniques for investigation or inspection ; 

(1) disclose information of a commercial nature relating to a financial service 
provider which has been obtained for regulatory purposes ; or 

(g ) deprive a person of a right to a fair and impartial adjudication . 
( 11) The selected portions of records mentioned in item ( 9) shall notbe published if , 
they , — 

(a ) are likely to lead to systemic risk ; 

(b ) are likely to significantly frustrate implementation of an action proposed by 
the or Bank or the central board , where such action has not been disclosed to the 
public ; or 

(c ) involve discussion of any particular legal proceeding before a tribunal, court 
or arbitrator. 

(12 ) The publication of portions of records relating to a particular meeting may be 
delayed or prevented only if the Central Board , in such meeting, — 


418 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(a ) records the reason in respect of such portions of the records; 

(b ) the majority ofdirectors present at the meeting vote in favour of such action 
for each portion of the records separately ; and 

( c ) the vote of each director is recorded and published in accordance with 
item (9 ). 

( 13 ) The portions of records delayed for publication must be published by the Bank 
within six months, or as soon as the reasons for their delay cease to be applicable, whichever 
is later. 

( 14 ) In this Schedule , "records" mean the agenda , proposals, and decisions taken at 
the meeting , and includes the votes of each directors present at the meeting .". 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


419 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is one of the principal institutions of financial and 
economic governance with a well -defined sphere of activity, distinct and differentiated from 
other areas in India . It is primarily responsible for monetary stability , regulation of banking 
operations,management of foreign exchange reserves and issuing of currency. 

However, lately questions have been raised over the role and functioning of the RBI s 
CentralBoard which is the governing authority of the Bank . The Public Accounts Committee 
too has questioned the Governor of RBI about the role of the Central Board . Further, in 
terms of transparency and accountability it lags behind its international counterparts like the 
Federal Reserve and Bank of England . This indicates that there is a need to change the way 
it functions. 

However, the Central Board as an institution is bound by the provisions of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 . It cannot change its behaviour on its own. Therefore, in 
order to transform the working of the Central Board and RBI as whole for better, the need is 
to amend the parent Act. 

The Bill therefore , seeks to amend the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 with a view to 
make the functioning and working of the Central Board and RBI as a whole more efficient, 
transparent, accountable to the Parliament and general public without affecting its autonomous 
and independent character. 


Hence this Bill . 


KONDA VISHWESHWAR REDDY 


NEW DELHI; 
July 5 , 2017 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 6 of the Bill provides for the constitution of a Selection Committee for 
short listing of persons to be appointed as a Director by the Central Government. Clause 8 
provides for constitution of an Inquiry Committee to inquire into the grounds for removal of 
a Director appointed under this Act. Clause 11 of the Bill provides for establishment of an 
Audit Committee by the Central Board to review the functioning of the Bank . It also provides 
that the Bank shall maintain a website or any other universally accessible repository of 
electronic information . The Bill, therefore , if enacted would involve expenditure from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of about rupees one crore would 
involve as recurring expenditure per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees two lakhs is also likely to be involved out 
of the Consolidated Fund of India . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 

Clause 3 of the Bill empowers the Central Board may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette , make regulations delegating the functions of the Board to the Governor or any 
other Director or employee of the Bank . Clause 10 empowers the Central Board to make 
regulations regarding the proceedings of its meetings. Clause 11 empowers the Central Board 
to make regulations stipulating the process to be followed by it for evaluating the performance 
of its Directors , including the requirement of a Director to recuse him from deliberations or 
decisions involving an evaluation ofhis performance. It also empowers the Reserve Bank of 
India to make regulations regarding publication of information which it is obliged to publish 
under this Act. As the regulations will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


421 


Bill No. 169 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for compulsory harvesting or rainwater in every Government, 

residential, commercial and institutional building to conserve water and 

ensure recharge of groundwater and for matters connected therewith . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Rainwater (Harvesting and Storage ) Act, 2017 . 
( 2) It extends to the Union territories only . 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


skoent and 


2 . It is hereby declared that it is expedient in public interest that the Union Government Declaration . 
undertake adequate measures to harvest rainwater so as to conserve water and prevent 
over -exploitation of existing water bodies. 


422 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definition . 


3 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires : 

(a ) " building " includes all such structures, sheds, houses and buildings which 
are wholly or partially owned , possessed built or occupied by the Government of 
India as may be notified by the Government under this Act; 

(b ) " commercial establishment" means any building which is being used as an 
office or factory or for any other commercial purpose in connection with any trade or 
business; 

(c ) " Government" means the Central Government or the Union territory 
Administration , as the case may be ; 

(d ) "Government building" means any building occupied or being used by any 
Government department or Ministry and includes offices of public sector enterprises, 
statutory bodies , bodies owned or administered by the Government, autonomous 
bodies , bodies of local self government and residential areas provided by the 
Government to government employees and those under Public Private Partnership 
Mode ; 

(e ) " household " means a dwelling unit of any description ; 
(1) " housing society" means a dwelling unit in a complex or building ; 
(8 ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 

(h ) " rainwater harvesting" means collection and storage of rainwater from 
rooftop of a building or other parts of a building or from a vacant land for use or for 
the purpose of groundwater recharge. 

4 . It shall be the duty of the Government to ensure and implement such measures, as 
it may deem necessary and appropriate , to harvest rainwater in Government building within 
such time as may be prescribed. 


Compulsory 
rainwater 
harvesting in 
Government 
buildings. 


Compulsory 
rainwater 


hary 


households and 
residential 
establishments. 


5 . (1) Every owner of an independent household building having area of not less 
than 1100 square Meters or every owner who proposes to construct an independent household 
building on a sital area of not less than 1100 square Meters shall install rainwater harvesting 
structures for storage and for use of harvested water or for groundwater recharge . 

(2) It shall be obligatory for the builders and promoters of every building and housing 
society which receives any type of financial assistance or concessions from the Central 
Government to install rainwater harvesting structure on the top of every building or in the 
land forming part of the property , in order to meet a part of its total requirement of water in 
such manner as may be prescribed . 

( 3) The responsibility to ensure compliance of the provisions of sub - section (2 ) shall 
lie with the developer or builder of the proposed building or housing society. 

Explanation : — For the purposes of this section "builder" or " developer" means 
the company or individual or group of individuals responsible for the planning and 
construction of the building or housing society. 

6 . ( 1) Every commercial establishment having any type of contracts or assignment 
with the Government of India shall adopt such measures to provide rain water harvesting 
structures for storage and for use of harvested water or for groundwater recharge within the 
premises of the commercial establishment. 

(2) The responsibility to ensure compliance of the provisions of sub-section (1) shall 
lie on the person, by whatever name called , who is primarily responsible for the affairs of 
that establishment. 


Compulsory 
rainwater 
harvesting by 
commercial 
establishment 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


423 


7 . ( 1) The Government shall , as soon as possible, prepare an action plan to educate Action plan to 
the masses about the technology and the benefits of rainwater harvesting. 

educate the 

masses about 
(2 ) For the purpose of spreading awareness and promotion of rainwater harvesting rainwater 
including awareness and promotion through internet, the Government shall encourage 

harvesting 
non -Governmental Organisations and other agencies or institutions engaged in the field of 
rainwater harvesting by providing them adequate financial assistance . 

8 . The Central Government shall , after due appropriate madeby Parliament by law in Central 
this behalf , provide requisite funds, from time to time, for carrying out the purposes of this Government to 
Act. 

provide 
requisite funds. 


9. Whoever contravenes the provisions of this Act shall be punished with imprisonment Punishment. 
for a term which may extend up to two years and with fine which may extend up to rupees 
one lakh . 

10 . The provisions of this Act and rules made there under shall have effect Act to have 
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time 

overriding 

effect. 
being in force. 

11 . This provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any Act not in 
other law for the time being in force. 

derogation of 
other laws. 


12 . ( 1) The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazette , make Power to make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

rules . 
(2 ) Every rule made under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is 
made , before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty 
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, 
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions 
aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses 
agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such 
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification 
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under 
that rule . 


424 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Water availability per capita has been on the decline in India due to increasing demand 
for water and the rapid population growth . The quantum of water available in the country 
being fixed , the increasing demand has reduced per capita water availability. 

There is a large- scale pollution of water as a result of industrialization and urbanization , 
a trend which has to be checked . Water in most industries is used for cooling purposes , 
thus, it is not necessary to use potable water. Instead , the recycled water may be used for 
this purpose . Demand of water for domestic use can also be reduced . For example , in most 
urban areas about 12.5 litres of water is used in one flushing . By using the recycled water 
over and over again , fresh water can be conserved . 

Compulsory rainwater harvesting is , therefore , need of hour. It will not only reduce 
the burden on limited water resources but will also ensure sustainability for the future 
generations. 

Hence this Bill. 


A . SAMPATH 


NEW DELHI; 
July 7 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


425 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 7 of the Bill provides that the Government shall provide adequate financial 
assistance to non -Governmental organizations and other agencies or institutions engaged 
in the field of rainwater harvesting for the purpose of spreading awareness among people 
about the importance ofrainwater harvesting. Clause 8 provides that the CentralGovernment 
shall provide requisite funds for carrying out the purposes of this Act. The Bill, therefore , 
if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated 
that a sum of rupees five hundred crore is likely to be involved as recurring expenditure per 
annum . 


A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees two hundred crore is likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


426 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 174 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide for the setting up of a Commission to exploit renewable energy resources 

in the country and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 
Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. (1 ) This Act may be called the Renewable Energy Resources Commission Act , 


Short title , extent 


and 


2017 . 


commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
( 3 ) It shall come into force at once . 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - 


Definitions . 


(i) " appropriate Government” means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases , the CentralGovernment. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


427 


(ii) “ Commission ” means the Renewable Energy Resources Commission set 
up under section 3 ; 

( iii) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 

(iv ) “ renewable energy ” means energy obtained from non -conventional sources 
such as sunlight, wind, ethanol, jatropha , urban waste , geothermal sources, tides, 
waves or any other such source . 

3. ( 1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the OfficialGazette, set up a 
Commission to be known as the Renewable Energy Resources Commission for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act. 
(2 ) The Commission shall consist of: 

(i) a Chairperson to be appointed by the Central Government having such 
qualification as may be prescribed ; 

( ii ) one representative each from every State/Union territory to be 
nominated by the State Government/Union territory Administration concerned ; 
and 


Renewable 
Energy 
Resources 
Commission 


(iii) one representative each from the NITI Ayog , Union Ministries of Power, 
Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation ,Rural Development, 
Urban Development, Finance and Environment, Forest and Climate Change . 

( 3) The Secretary ,Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy shall be ex -officio 
Secretary to the Commission . 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of the 
service of the Chairperson and members of the Commission shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 

4 . ( 1) Every State Government/Union territory Administration shall, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, constitute a Renewable Energy Resources Commission for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) The State /Union territory Commission shall consist of a Chairperson and such 
number of other members as the State Government/Union territory Administration may 
deem necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


Every State 
Government/ 
Union territory 
Administration 
to constitute 
Renewable 
Energy 
Resources 
Commission . 


a team 


5 . Every State /Union territory Commission shall , as soon as possible , but not later State 
than one year from the date of commencement of this Act, identify the exploitable sources Government to 
of renewable energy in their respective jurisdictions and send a report thereon to the 

send detailed 

report to the 
Commission . 

Commissioner 
6 . ( 1) The Commission shall, on receipt of report from the State / Union territory Commission to 
Commission , depute a team of experts to the State /Union territory to verify and assess the 

of experts to 
possibility of exploiting renewable energy resources. 

the State /Union 
(2 ) The team of experts shall submit a report to the Commission at the earliest in such territory. 
form and manner as may be prescribed . 

(3) The Commission shall, on the basis of the report submitted by the team of experts , 
work out the estimated expenditure on the projects relating to exploitation of renewable 
energy and sent a report thereon to the Central Government. 

7 . The Central Government and the State Governments shall contribute towards the Central 
expenditure incurred on the projects relating to exploitation of renewable energy in such 

Government 

and State 
ratio as may be prescribed : 

Government to 
Provided that the CentralGovernment shall contribute not less than fifty per cent. of 

contribute 

towards the 
the total expenditure . 

expenditure . 


428 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


- 


Projects to be 
completed in a 
time bound 
manner. 


Power to make 
rules . 


8 . (1) The projects relating to exploitation of renewable energy shall be completed in 
a timebound manner. 

(2 ) The Central Government shall release funds for the implementation of projects 
relating to exploitation of renewable energy after making such enquiry about the progress 
of projects , as it may deem fit . 

9 . ( 1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette , make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days 
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, 
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions 
aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses 
agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such 
modified form or be of no effect , as the casemay be; so , however, that any such modification 
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under 
that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


429 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
India has vast reserves of natural resources — both renewable and non - renewable . In 
the last few decades, the over dependence on fossil fuels formeeting our energy needs have 
resulted in many ecological and climatological issues including globle warming. All over 
the world there is a shift towards greater use of renewable energy sources as they are not 
only available in abundance but also considered to be non - polluting in comparison to fossil 
fuels. All over world , more than twenty per cent. of energy requirements are being met 
through renewable energy sources. In our country , the dependence on fossil fuels is not at all 
good for our economy as we have to import more than fifty per cent. of our petroleum 
requirements . In the coming years , with the acceleration of industrialization and rising demand 
of energy from our people , demand for power is going to increase manifold and the situation 
may worsen if immediate steps are not taken to promote exploitation of renewable energy 
resources. It is proposed to constitute a Renewable Energy Resources Commission with a 
view to give fillup to the exploitation of renewable energy resources . 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives . 


SUNIL KUMAR SINGH 


NEW DELHI; 
July 10 , 2017. 


430 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the setting up of a Renewable Energy Resources 
Commission . Clause 4 provides that similar Commissions shall be constituted in every State 
and the Union territory . Clause 6 provides that the Commission shall send a team of experts 
to the States and the Union territories with a view to verify the report sent by them and assess 
the possibility of exploitation of renewable energy resources. While the expenditure relating 
to States shall be borne out of the Consolidated Funds of the respective States, the expenditure 
in respect of Union territories shall be borne out of the Consolidated Fund of India . 
Clause 7 provides that the Central Government shall contribute to the expenditure incurred 
on the projects relating to exploitation of renewable energy in such ratio as may be prescribed . 
The Bill , therefore, if enacted , is likely to involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund 
of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure of about rupees ten thousand 
crore will be involved. 


A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees five thousand crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


431 


Bill No . 213 OF 2017 


Short title . 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. This Act may be called the Constitution ( Amendment) Act , 2017 . 

2. In article 19 of the Constitution , for clause (2 ), the following clause shall be Amendment of 
substituted , namely — 

article 19 . 
“ (2) Nothing in sub - clause (a ) of clause (1) shall, 

(a ) affect the operation of any existing law , or prevent the State from 
making any law , in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the 
exercise of the right conferred by the said sub - clause in the interests of the 
sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State , friendly relations 
with foreign States, public order, decency or morality , or in relation to contempt 
of court , defamation or incitement to an offence ; and 

(b ) allow systematic , softor outright discrimination and derogation against 
another faith or religion through addressing of mass gatherings, printmedia , 
socialmedia , academic debates,( targeted ) advertising or any other non -personal 
and open - door discussions.” . 


432 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Constitution of India as a document was drafted after painstakingly long hours of 
negotiations, discussions and debates. A key objective was that it would stand the test of 
time of evolving social and cultural normsby upholding those values that a society is founded 
on . An obvious outcome of this is that it cannot be watertight to every challenge that is 
presented before it. An element of ambiguity is maintained so that law -makers, judiciary and 
the general public can tweak aspects according the changing needs of time and ideas. 

There is a growing trend in various societies of intolerance and systematic discrimination 
on the basis of religion. Based on such sentiment particularly towards the Islamic community, 
a first-of-its -kind Declaration was adopted by the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers 
to combat such defamation . 

Generalizing such a specific idea so that all faiths could benefit from such protection , 
the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC ) adopted a Resolution , 7 / 19 , titled 
" Combatting Defamation of Religions". The sole objective was to welcome international 
and regional initiatives to promote cross-cultural and interfaith harmony. While systematically 
derogatory remarks by various religious groups against one another take their own path in 
different societies , it only makes sense that an Indian context gets its own version of such a 
resolution (India abstained from voting towards this Resolution at the UNHRC meeting ). 


Opinions and philosophical discourses are perceived and interpreted differently by 
each individual. Every mind contains its own set of schema and heuristics that enables it to 
process information . While addressing an audience , as religious leaders and preachers , one 
must keep in mind that the message being conveyed is being received in several different 
ways. An illustration of this idea is as follows: 

If a religious leader X addressing an audience (not all members of which are on 
the same intellectual level), negatively depicts another faith , there may be several 
members of this audience who may take this negative depiction more seriously than 
intended . This could lead to soft discrimination or outright violent struggles between 
the two groups. 

In order to ensure that proper care is administered before addressing an audience 
gethered to receive religious discourse , the check on free speech is placed right next to its 
grant in the Constitution . The addition of this sub -clause will ensure credibility in the functions 
and purpose of the Constitution of India . 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to amend the Constitution with a view to put a restriction on 
the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under 
article 19 ( 1) (a) by prohibiting any systematic , soft or outright discrimination and derogation 
against another faith or religion through addressing of mass gatherings, print media, social 
media , academic debates or any other non -personal and open -door discussions. 


Hence this Bill . 


KONDA VISHWESHWAR REDDY 


NEW DELHI; 
November 28 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


433 


Bill No . 27 OF 2018 


18 of 2013 . 


A Bill further to amend the Companies Act, 2013. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
1. (1) This Act may be called as the Companies (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

Short title and 

commencement 
(2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

2. In section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 after sub -section (8 ), the following Amendment of 
sub - section shall be inserted , namely : 

Section 134 . 
" (9 ) If the Registrar of Company after scrutinising the report provided under 
clause ( o ) of sub - section ( 3 ) finds it inappropriate , he shall pass an order directing the 
company to deposit a fine which shall not be less than the unspent amount marked by 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee constituted under sub - section (1) of section 135 
but which may extend upto twice of that amount and every officer who is in default shall be 
punishable with fine which may extend upto one thousand rupees for every day during 
which the default continues." 


434 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Companies Act, 2013 has been the first law in the world which has provided for the 
mandatory social contribution to be made by the Companies which had net worth of rupees 
five hundred crore or more , or turnover of rupees one thousand crore ormore or a net profit 
of rupees five crore or more during any financial year . For carrying out the Corporate Social 
Responsibilities mandated by the Act, the companies are required to constitute a Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee. 

While the Companies Act, 2013 in section 135 provides for the general prerequisites 
associated with the Corporate Social Responsibilities and directs that the Board provides 
for a report as per clause (o ) of sub - section (3 ) of section 134 citing reasons for failure in 
non -expenditure of amount earmarked for carrying Corporate Social Responsibility . The 
Companies Act, 2013 fails to carry out the intention behind insertion of section 135 as it 
doesn t contain any provision as to the penalty for this default . Even the Courts shy away 
from imposing any penalty . Due to the absence of sub provision , this mandatory social 
contribution has been reduced to dead letters. The samewas also pointed outby the Committee 
on Public Undertakings in its December 2015 report titled CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY IN SELECT CENTRAL PUBLIC SECTOR UNDERTAKINGS 
(CPSUs) . 


Hence this amendment has been introduced for effective implementation of the 
Corporate Social Responsibility regime in Indian environment. 

Hence this Bill . 


OM BIRLA 


NEW DELHI; 
November 30 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


435 


Bill No . 167 OF 2017 
A Bill further to amend the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Representation of the People (Amendment) Act, 2017. Short title and 

(2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernment may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2. After section 75A of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, the following Insertion of 
section shall be inserted , namely : 

new section 
75B . 


commencement. 


assets and 


“ 75B . (1 ) Every member of either House of Parliament shall , within ninety days Declaration of 
from the date on which he ceases to be member of that House , furnish the information 

liabilities by 
relating to — 

members of 
(i) movable and immovable property of which he , his spouse and his 

Parliament on 

cessation of 
dependant children are jointly or severally owners or beneficiaries ; 

membership . 


436 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


( ii ) his liabilities to any public financial institution ; and 


( iii) his liabilities to the Central Government or the State Government, 
to the Chairman of the Council of States or the Speaker of the House of the People , as 
the case may be. 

(2) The provisions of sub -sections (2) to (5 ) of section 75A including those 
relating to furnishing of information and making and laying of rules shall also apply, 
mutatis mutandis, to this section .” . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


437 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The Representation of the People Act , 1951 provides for the conduct of elections to 
the Houses of Parliament and the House or Houses of the Legislature of each State , the 
qualifications and disqualifications for membership of those Houses , the corrupt practices 
and other offences at or in connection with such elections and the decision of doubts and 
disputes arising out of or in connection with such elections. 

Already, there are provisions for declaration of assets and liabilities by every elected 
candidate of either House of Parliament within a period of ninety days from the date on 
which he takes his seat . This helps in winning the trusts of voters and strengthen the roots of 
democracy. However, there is no such provision for declaration of assets and liabilities after 
the expiry of the term ofmembership of elected members of either House of Parliament. The 
proposed amendment seeks to disclose the income and assets even after the completion of 
the term of House by each Member of Parliament. 


The proposed amendment in the parent Act will help in maintaining transparency and 
accountability of people s representative at the apex level. It will also help in creating a 
positive atmosphere of corruption free status for Members of Parliament. 

Hence this Bill. 


NINONG ERING 


NEW DELHI; 
July 11, 2017 . 


438 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 223 OF 2017 


Short title and 
commencement. 


A Bill further to amend the Press Council Act, 1978 . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1 ) This Act may be called the Press Council ( Amendment) Act, 2017 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date , as the Central Government may , by 
notification , in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

2 . In the Press Council Act, 1978 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in 
section 2, after clause (d ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( e ) " Press " includes newspapers , new channels and news agencies ;" . 


Amendment of 
section 2 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


439 


Substitution of 
certain words 
with other 
words 
throughout the 
Act . 


Amendment of 
section 5 . 


3. In the Principal Act, for the words " newspapers and news agencies" , " newspapers 
or news agencies" and " the newspaper, the news agency ", wherever they occur, the words 
" newspapers , news agencies and news channels" , " newspapers or news agencies or news 
channels" and " the newspaper, the news agency and the news channel" , respectively, shall 
be substituted. 
4 . In section 5 of the principal Act , 
(a ) for sub -section ( 1), the following sub -section shall be substituted , namely: 

" (1) The Council shall consist of a Chairman and twenty other members ."; 
(b ) for sub -section ( 3 ), the following sub - section shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 3) Ofthe other members — 

(a ) ten shall be nominated in accordance with such procedure as 
may be prescribed from among the working journalists in newspapers 
and news channels other than editors , so , however, that the number of 
such editors and working journalists other than editors in relation to 
newspapers published or news channels broadcasted , as the case may be , 
in Indian languages shall be not less than two and one , respectively ; 

(b ) six shall be nominated in accordance with such procedure as 
may be prescribed from among persons who own or carry on the business 
ofmanagement of newspapers and news channels , so , however, that there 
shall be one representative each from the categories of big newspapers, 
medium newspapers, small newspapers , big news channels ,medium news 
channels and small news channels; 


(c ) one shall be nominated in accordance with such procedure as 
may be prescribed from among persons who manage news agencies; 

(d ) three shall be members of Parliament of whom two shall be 
nominated by the Speaker from among the members of the House of the 
People (Lok Sabha ) and one shall be nominated by the Chairman of the 
Council of States (Rajya Sabha ) from among its members: 

Provided that no working journalist who owns, or carries on the 
business of management of, any newspaper or news channel shall be 
eligible for nomination under clause (a ): 

Provided further that the nomination under clause (a ) and clause 
(b ) shall be so made that the among the persons nominated there is not 
more than one person interested in any newspaper or group of newspapers 
or news channel or group of news channels under the same control or 

management. 
Explanation . — " For the purpose of clause (b ), — 

(i) a newspaper shall be deemed to be categorized as big, medium or small 
newspaper on the basis of its circulation per issue , as the Central Government, may , 
by notification in the official Gazette , notify from time to time. 

(ii) a news channel shall be deemed to be categorized as big , medium or small 
news channel on the basis of its viewership , as the Central Government, may, by 
notification in the official Gazette , notify from time to time.". 

5 . In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub -section ( 2 ), after clause (I), the following Amendment of 
clause shall be inserted namely : 

section 13 . 
" (la ) to facilitate the constitution and promotion of inter- industry , private and 
self regulatory institutions of newspapers and news channels and ensure their proper 
functioning ;". 


440 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Press Council Act provides constitution of " The Press Council of India " for 
purpose of preserving the freedom of the Press and for maintaining and improving the 
standards of newspapers and news agencies in India. 

During the period of enactment of the Act, only the industry of newspapers and news 
agencies existed . Television was in experimental phase. With development of audio -visual 
and satellite technologies , television news channels emerged as a major industry with greater 
share in information industry and greater influence on perception of citizens. Therefore , 
for improving the standards and to curb the malpractices of the broadcast news, the news 
channels are needed to be brought under the control of the Press Council of India . 

The large number of members in the Council leads to slow decision making . Besides , 
there are representatives from such Government institutions which do not hold much 
relevance in relation to the news industry, say , representatives of the UGC , the Bar Council 
of India , and the Sahitya Academy. The need is to reduce the number of representatives 
from the Parliament from five to three to reduce the political influence on the Council. 
Hence, the Bill proposes to reduce the number of members of the Council from twenty 
eight to twenty, and its provisions include representatives from the news channel industry . 

Self regulation leads to better maintenance of the industry and lesser conflicts. The 
basic elements of self-regulation usually consists of a code of practice or guidelines adopted 
by the industry and processes by which application of the code or principles may be assessed , 
complaints handled and corrections applied . Therefore , besides regulation by a public 
institution , the inter- industry regulation should be encouraged . The Bill also seeks to include 
the provision to constitute , promote and check the functioning of self regulatory institutions 
for newspapers and news channels within the purview of the Press Council of India . 

Hence this Bill . 


NINONG ERING 


NEW DELHI; 
November 28 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


441 


Bill No. 270 OF 2017 


Short title, 
extent and 
commencement. 


A Bill to provide for the delivery of notified public services to citizens within 
the stipulated time limit and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Right to Public Services Act, 2017 . 
(2) It extends to the whole of the India, except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

( 3) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernment may , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires: 

(a ) " Appellate Authority " means an authority including one belonging to the 
local self-Government, notified as such under section 4 ; 

(b ) " Designated Public Authority " means an authority or body including one 
belonging to the local self-Government and Organizations, owned , controlled or 
substantially financed by the Central Government and notified as such for providing 
the service under section 4 ; 


Definitions . 


442 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


(c ) " eligible person " means a person who is eligible for receiving the services 
notified by the Central Government; 

(d ) " prescribed " means as prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

(e ) " Reviewing Authority " means an authority appointed or designated including 
one belonging to the local self -Government notified as Reviewing Authority under 
section 4 ; 


(f) " right to public service" means right to obtain the services notified by the 
Central Government under section 3, from time to time, within the stipulated time 
limit ; 

(8 ) " service" means any service notified under section 4 ; and 

(h ) " stipulated time limit " means maximum time to provide the service by the 
Designated Public Authority or to decide the appeal by the Appellate Authority and 
Reviewing Authority as notified under section 4 . 

3 . Every eligible person shall have the right to obtain public services to be notified by 
the CentralGovernment, from time to time, in accordance with the provisions of this Act. 


Right to obtain 
Public 
Services. 


Notification of 
Authorities. 


4 . The CentralGovernment shall , from time to time, notify in the OfficialGazette, the 
services to be rendered , provisions for fast track Service delivery, Designated Public Authority , 
Appellate Authority , Reviewing Authority for the purposes of this Act. 

5 . (1 ) The Designated Public Authority shall provide the service notified under section 4 , 
to the person eligible to obtain the service , within the stipulated time limit . 


Right to obtain 
Public service 
within 
stipulated time 
limit. 


(2 ) The stipulated time limit, if not prescribed otherwise in the notification issued 
under section 3, shall commence from the date when required application for notified service 
is submitted to the Designated Public Authority or to a person subordinate to him authorized 
to receive the application , which shall be duly acknowledged . 


Application . 


Appeal. 


6 . ( 1) Any application being filed for obtaining services notified under the Act shall be 
treated as application under the Act. 

(2 ) The Designated Public Authority on receipt of an application shall , within the 
stipulated time limit, provide service or reject the application : 

Provided that in case of rejection of application the Designated Public Authority shall 
record the reasons in writing and intimate the same to the applicant. 

7 . (1 ) Any person , whose application is rejected under sub -section (2 ) of section 6 or 
who is not provided the service within the stipulated time limit , may file an appeal to the 
Appellate Authority within thirty days from the date of rejection of application or the expiry 
of the stipulated time limit, as the case may be. 

(2 ) Every appeal filed under sub- section (1) shall be duly acknowledged by the Appellate 
Authority by providing the Appellant signed receipt of the same: 

Provided that the Appellate Authority may admit the appeal after the expiry of the 
period of thirty days if he is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause 
from filing the appeal in time. 

(3 ) The Appellate Authority may order the Designated Public Authority to provide the 
service within the specified period or may reject the appeal, as the case may be . 

(4) The Appellate Authority may, along with the order to provide service , impose 
penalty according to the provisions of section 8 . 

(5) The Designated Public Authority or the aggrieved applicant by any order of the 
Appellate Authority, may make a second appeal within sixty days from the date of that order 
to the Reviewing Authority, who shall dispose the appeal according to the prescribed 
procedure : 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


443 


5 of 1908 . 


Provided that the Reviewing Authority may entertain the second appeal after the expiry 
of sixty days, if he is satisified that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from 
filing the appeal in time. 

(6 ) In case of non - compliance of the order by Designated Public Authority for providing 
the service under sub -section (3 ), the aggrieved applicant may submit an application directly 
to the Reviewing Authority, which shall be disposed of in the manner as may be prescribed 
for second appeal. 

(7 ) The Appellate Authority and Reviewing Authority shall while deciding an appeal 
under this section , have the same powers as are vested in civil court while trying a suit under 
the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 in respect of: 

(a) requiring the production and inspection of documents ; 
(b ) issuing summons for hearing to the designated public servant and appellant; 

and 

(c ) any other matter such as may be prescribed . 
(8) In every appeal, the onus to prove that a delay or denial of service was justified 
shall be on the Designated Public Servant or the Appellate Authority as the case may be who 
delayed or denied the service . 

8 . (1 ) When the Appellate Authority is of the opinion that the Designated Public Penalty . 
Authority has failed to provide service without sufficient and reasonable cause , then he may 
impose a penalty which shall not be less than five hundred rupees but which may extend 
upto five thousand rupees. 

(2) When the Appellate Authority is of the opinion that the Designated Public Authority 
having caused delay in providing the service , then he may impose a penalty at the rate of two 
hundred fifty rupees per day upto a maximum of five thousand rupees on the Designated 
Public Authority . 

( 3) When the Reviewing Authority is of the opinion that the Appellate Authority has 
failed to dispose of the appeal within the stipulated time limit without sufficient and reasonable 
cause , then he may impose a penalty of not less than five hundred rupees which may extend 
upto five thousand rupees on the Appellate Authority : 

Provided that the Appellate Authority shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being 
heard before any penalty is imposed on him . 

(4 ) Every penalty imposed under this Act shall be charged as per the rules framed 
under this Act, from time to time: 

Provided the penalty imposed under this Act shall be in addition to that prescribed in 
any other Act for the time being in force. 

9. The non -compliance of the orders of the Appellate Authority , unless pending in Penalty on 
second appeal or modified by the Reviewing Authority , or of the orders of the Reviewing Non 
Authority, as the case may be , shall amount to misconduct and the Deginated Public Authority compliance. 
shall be liable for actions under relevant provisions, including those that have been laid 
down for disciplinary action . 

10 . No Civil Court shall entertain any suit , application or other proceeding in respect Bar of Civil 
of any order made under this Act and no such order shall be called in question otherwise than Court. 
by way of an appeal as specified under this Act. 

11 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act, for the timebeing in force , Application for 
the Government of India, may send applications of non -compliance directly to the Appellate non 
Authority for taking further actions as per the Act. 

compliance to 
the Appellate 

Authority . 
12 . No suit , procecution or their legal proceeding shall lie against any person for Protection of 
anything which is done in good faith or intended to be done under this Act or any rule made action taken in 
thereunder. 

good faith . 


444 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Overriding 
effect of the 
Act . 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


13. The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effectby 
virtue of any law other than this Act in relation to the services notified under this Act and its 
implementation . 

14 . (1 ) If any difficuly arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act appear to it to be necessary or expedient for 
removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no order shall be made under this section after the expiry of a period of 
two years from the commencement of this Act . 


(2 ) Every order made under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is 
made, before each House of Parliament. 


Power to make 
rules. 


15 . (1 ) The Central Government may, by notification , make rules to carry out the 
purpose of this Act. 


(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made 
before each House of the State Legislature while it is in session for a total period of thirty 
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions and if, 
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or successive sessions 
aforesaid both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree 
that the rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified 
form or be of no effect , as the case may be; so however, that any such modification or 
annulment shall be without prejudice to the vailidy of anything previously done under that 
rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


445 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Right to Public Service (RTPS ) confers right on every individual citizen to time 
bound delivery of services and redressal of grievances . The RTPS legislations are meant to 
reduce corruption among the Government Officials and to increase transparency and public 
accountability . The States in India have acted as pioneers in this regard . The right to public 
service legislations have been introduced in various States following the legislations of the 
Madhya Pradesh Government in the year 2010 . By now , more than twenty States have 
introduced such Acts. 

These Acts have enabled the citizens to access Government services and Government 
to provide the required services seamlessly . It has been observed that the RTPS Acts have 
helped the States in tackling corruption , inefficiency and lack of transparency in the conduct 
of Government Affairs. The RTPS strengthens the citizens of India , thereby strengthening 
their belief in Government institutions. 

The Bill, therefore, seeks to provide for the delivery ofnotified public services of the 
Government of India within the stipulated time limit. 


The 


Hence this Bill . 


NINONG ERING 


NEW DELHI ; 
November 28 , 2017 . 


446 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 15 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


447 


Bill No . 249 OF 2017 


A Bill to provide certain facilities to female employees during menstruation at work 

place and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -eighth year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Actmay be called the Menstruation Benefits Act, 2017. 

( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date, as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Short title and 
commencement. 


448 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Application of 
the Act. 


2 . It applies, in the first instances, 

( a ) to every establishmentbeing a factory ,mine or plantation including any such 
establishment belonging to Government and to every establishment wherein persons 
are employed for the exhibition of equestrian , acrobatic and other performances ; 

(b ) to every shop or establishment within the meaning of any law for the time 
being in force in relation to shops and establishments in a State , in which ten or more 
persons are employed , or were employed , on any day of the preceding twelve months : 

Provided that the State Government may, with the approval of the Central 
Government, after giving not less than month s notice of its intention of so doing ,by 
notification in the Official Gazette , declare that all or any of the provisions of this Act 
shall apply also to any other establishment or class of establishments, industrial , 
commercial, agricultural or otherwise ; 

(c ) to every men who is self -employed or working in the unorganized sector or 
in establishments where less than ten persons are employed . 
3 . In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires, 


Definitions. 


(a ) " appropriate Government" means, in relation to an establishment being a 
mine , or an establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equestrian , 
acrobatic and other performances, the Central Government and in relation to any other 
establishment, the State Government ; 


(b ) " establishment" means 


(i) a factory ; 
( ii ) a mine ; 


( iii) a plantation ; 


( iv ) an establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of 
equestrian , acrobatic and other performances; 


(v ) a shop or establishment; or 

( vi) an establishment to which the provisions of this Act have been declared 
under section 2 to be applicable ; 
(c ) "menstruation benefit " means the benefits referred to in section 4 ; 
(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

(e) " wages" means all remuneration paid or payable in cash to woman , if the 
termsof the contract of employment, express or implied , were fulfilled and includes 


( 1) such cash allowances (including dearness allowance and house rent 
allowance ) as a woman is for the timebeing entitled to ; 


( 2 ) incentive bonus woman ; and 


(3 ) the money value of the concessional supply of foodgrains and other 
articles, but does not include 

(i) any bonus other than incentive bonus; 

( ii ) over - time earnings and any deduction or payment made on 
account of fines; 

(iii ) any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension 
fund or provident fund of for the benefit of the woman under any law for 
the time being in force ; and 

( iv ) any gratuity payable on the termination of service ; and 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


449 


(f) " woman " means a woman employed , whether directly or through any agency , 
for wages in any establishment. 
4 . Every woman 

Right to 

Menstrual 
(a ) who is working as an employee in any establishment registered with the Leave. 
appropriate Government; or 

(b ) who is a student in or above Class VIII in any school recognized by the 
appropriate Government, 
shall be entitled to paid leave or leave from the school, as the case may be, for four days 
during her menstruation : 

Provided that if a woman employee undergoingmenstruation opts to work instead 
of taking leave , she shall be paid overtime allowance at such rate and in such manner 
as may be prescribed . 
5 . Every woman employee working in the establishment during her menstruation shall Regulation of 

working hours 
be entitled to thirty minutes of rest period twice a day for not more than four days during 

during 
menstruation in a month . 

menstruation . 


6 . Every establishment having fifty or more employees shall have the facility of creche Establishment 
within such distance as may be prescribed , either separately or along with common facilities. to hi 

facility. 


to have creche 


7 . Every establishment shall intimate in writing and electronically to every woman at Duty of 
the time of her initial appointment regarding every benefit available under this Act. 

establishment 
to inform the 
benefits . 


8 . Every woman shall have a right to self perception of her menstruation , in accordance 
with the provisions of this Act. 


Recognition of 
Menstruation . 


14 of 2013 . 


9. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the InternalComplaints Committee Redressal. 
constituted under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention , Prohibition , 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 or similar Grievance Redressal Committees constituted within the 
establishment shall address the grievance pertaining to menstrual leave within the 
establishment. 


10 . Whoever , — 


Punishment. 


(a ) denies leave to a woman during her menstruation ; or 
(b ) obstructs a female employee from entitlement of menstrual leave ; or 

(c) denies or discontinues prescribed rest and recreation facilities to the women 
during hermenstruation , 
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one month but 
which may extend upto three months and with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand 
but which may extend to fifty thousand Rupees . 

11. ( 1) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette , make Power to make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act . 

rules. 
(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


450 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


There have been frequent demands across India to further amend the Labour Laws in 
order to provide better working facilities to the female employees. The menstruation leave 
movement has gained momentum across the nation and there has been intense demand to 
entitle women with paid leave during menstruation . Besides, there have been demands to 
provide intermediate breaks during menstruation in the working days and facilities for rest 
at the workplace in India . A lot of women ,media and civil society organizations have begun 
addressing the difficulties associated with menstruation and demanding paid leave . The 
success of several campaigns and petitions launched for menstrual leave asserts that the 
movement is gaining fast momentum in India . 

History of paid menstrual leave dates back to a period as early as the World War II. 
Countries like Japan , South Korea, Indonesia and Taiwan have been far sighted regarding 
the issue and are entitling female employees with menstrual leave. Italy has also proposed a 
Bill on paid menstrual leave . Historically, Indian societies have been marked with the feature 
of vibrant liberalism . A girls school in the State of Kerala had granted its students menstrual 
leave as early as 1912. This financial year, a couple of companies in India have individually 
introduced the policy of paid menstrual leave for their female employees . 

According to a research conducted at University College London , and published earlier 
this year revealed that period pain can be “ as bad as having a heart attack ” .Given the biological 
complexity of females and the intense pain they have to suffer , they shall have the right to be 
entitled with leave during menstruation . In addition , women are least productive in terms of 
job during the menstruation , specially on the first and the second day of the menstrual cycle 
due to unmanageable discomforts . Thus, it may not be much fruitful to the employers in 
terms of production . Therefore, with both the perspectives of the female employees as well 
as the employers, menstrual leave is desirable. 

The Bill , therefore , seeks to entitle female employees with paid menstrual leave for 
two days . It also seeks to provide better facilities for rest at the workplace during menstruation . 

Hence this Bill. 


NINONG ERING 


NEW DELHI; 
November 27 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


451 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 11 of the Bill empowers the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the provisions of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation 
of legislative power is of a normal character . 


452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Bill No. 22 OF 2018 


A Bill to amend the Clinical Establishments ( Registration and Regulation ) Act, 2010 . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 

follows: 
Short title and 1. (1) This Act may be called the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation ) 
commencement. Amendment Act, 2018 . 


( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


453 


23 of 2010 . 


2 . In section 5 of the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation ) Act, 2010 Amendment of 
(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), after clause (e ), the following clause shall be section 5 . 
inserted , namely : 

" ( ea ) setup and maintain an online portal for the clinical establishments to 
update the records and real time data ;" . 


3 . ( 1) In section 12 of the principal Act, after sub - section ( 2 ), the following Amendment of 
sub -sections shall be inserted , namely : 

section 12. 


" ( 3 ) The clinical establishments whose annual revenue exceeds rupees 
fifty lakh shall update the real-time position of occupancy of the beds in 
their respective premises on the online portal setup by the National council under 
clause (ea ) of section 5 . 

(4 ) The clinical establishments whose annual revenue exceeds rupees fifty lakh 
shall publish an annual report stating the monthly implementation progress of 
clause (b ) of section 13B ." . 

4 . After section 13 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be inserted , Insertion of 
namely: 

new sections 

13A and 13B . 
" 13A . (1) The National Council shall, in consultation with State Councils , meet Rate 
quarterly to determine the range of rates for each type ofmedical procedures and services determination 

for Clinical 
provided by the clinical establishments. 

Establishment. 
(2 ) The rates for each type of medical procedures and services in different 
geographical locations (like villages, town, and metro ) shall be decided considering the 
economic status of the people and on the basis of the cost of infrastructure , equipments, 
consumables and skilled human resources . 


( 3 ) The rates under sub -section ( 2 ) may be revised as per annual market inflation . 

13B . The district registering authority or any other body authorized by the Central Registering 
Government shall visit , call for information and inspect the clinical establishments on a Authority to 
quarterly basis to ensure that 

visit , call for 

information 
( a ) clinical establishments are open to any person without any discrimination and inspect the 

clinical 
on the ground of religion , race , caste , sex, place of birth , language or any of them ; 

establishments . 
(b ) clinical establishments with an annual revenue exceeding rupees fifty lakh 
reserve ten per cent. of the total number of operational beds for medical examination 
and treatment free of charge in each department for the poor sections, whose annual 
income is less than rupees twenty five thousand ; and 


(c ) clinical establishments charge rates of medical procedures and services as 
determined under sub - section (2 ) of section 13A ." . 


454 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Article 21 of the Constitution states that no person shall be deprived of his life or 
personal liberty except according to procedure established by law . However, providing 
rudimentary healthcare is equivalentto putting the life of an individual in danger justbecause 
he is economically incapable to afford decent healthcare. It is prerogative of the Government 
to ensure that nobody under any circumstance , whatsoever, shall be deprived of his /her life 
and provision of good healthcare is one of the prominent ways to achieve this . 

The Honourable Supreme Court, in the landmark judgment of Consumer Education 
and Research vs. Union of India , 1995 held that the right to health and medical care is a 
fundamental right and it is the obligation of the State not only to provide emergency medical 
services but also to ensure the creation of conditions necessary for good health . 

Furthermore , Part IV of the Indian Constitution ,the Directive Principle of State Policy 
lays down the duties of the State which includes provision of good healthcare . Article 39 (e ) 
states that the health and strength of workers ,men , women , and children are not abused . 
Article 41 imposes duty on State to public assistance for those who are sick and disable . 
Article 42 states that it s a primary responsibility of the State to protect the health of infant 
and mother by maternity relief . Article 47 spells out the duty of the State to raise the level of 
nutrition , the standard of living and public health of its people as its primary responsibility. 

However, it is observed that the Government despite taking various initiatives has not 
been able to provide a comprehensive medical and health facilities which all the citizens are 
entitled to . After the adoption ofneo - liberal policy framework from 1990 onwards, corporate 
hospitals rose at a startling rate . Thus , it has become difficult for an ordinary family of our 
country to be able to access good healthcare . As per the Medical Council of India (MCI), 
since independence the number of private medical colleges in India has grown at a startling 
rate with a pace much greater than that of the Governmentmedical Colleges. 

With this sharp rise, these private clinical establishments started building up cartels, 
thereby charging exuberant prices for medical services. There have been plenty of examples 
in the past, whereby poor families had to go through grave mental and monetary exploitation 
by these clinical establishments. Hence , these private hospitals need to be regulated by a 
statutory framework to stop the exploitation of the vulnerable sections of the society . 

The Bill , therefore , seeks to amend the Clinical Establishments (Registration and 
Regulation ) Act, 2010 with view to — 

(a ) determine the range of rates for each type ofmedical procedures and services 
provided by the clinical establishments ; and 

(b ) reserve ten per cent of the total number of operational beds for medical 
examination and treatment in clinical establishments for the poor sections of the society . 


Hence , this Bill. 


DUSHYANT CHAUTALA 


NEW DELHI; 
November 30 , 2017 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


455 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 2 of the Bill provides that National Council shall setup and maintain an online 
portal for the clinical establishments to update the records and real time data . The Bill , 
therefore , if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is 
likely to involve a recurring annual expenditure of rupees fifty crore from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees fifty crore is also likely to be 
involved 


456 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 21 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Right to Information Act, 2005 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 
commencement. 


Amendment of 
section 4 . 


1 . (1) This Act may be called the Right to Information ( Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as Central Governmentmay, by notification in 
the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2 . In section 4 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as the 22 of 2005 . 
principle Act), in sub -section (1 ), — 

( a ) for the words " Every public authority " , the words " Every public authority 
through Central Public Information Officer or State Public Information Officer, as the 
case may be ," shall be substituted ; and 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


457 


(b ) in clause (b ), after sub -clause (xvii ), in the long line, for the words " every 
year", the words " every month " shall be substituted . 

3 . In section 18 of the principal Act, in sub -section (1), after clause (f), the following 
clause shall be inserted , namely : 

" (g) in respect of non - compliance and updating of publications as mentioned 
under section 4 ." . 


Amendment of 
section 18 . 


458 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Right to Information Act, 2005 (RTI Act) is one of the highly - acclaimed welfare 
legislations. The Act seeks to " empower the citizens, promote transparency and accountability 
in the working of the Government, contain corruption , and make our democracy work for 
the people in real sense ". Section 4 , aims to provide a structure wherein maximum information 
should be provided " suo motu " to the public at regular intervals through variousmeans of 
communications, including internet, so that the public could resort to the use of this Act to 
obtain information . 


All this was supposed to be done within onehundred and twenty days of the enactment 
of the RTI Act in 2005 with continued updates . However, the same was not executed . 

In the current schemeof the RTI Act, section 4 sets out obligations of public authority 
as an institution . There is no provision to fix responsibility on any officer at the level of 
public authority in case of non - compliance. In the case of Delhi Development Authority Vs. 
Central Information Commission & Others, W . P. No. 12714 /2009 Hon ble Delhi High Court, 
Court observed : " Section 4 merely sets out the obligations of the public authorities. It doesn t 
provide the machinery to enforce the implementation of these obligations". 

Even after twelve years, there has been very little progress on the proactive disclosure 
front. It is observed that once the information is disclosed by the public authority, the same 
is not updated for years . This makes the objectives of the Act defeated . 

The Bill , therefore, seeks to amend the RTI Act, 2005 with a view to fix responsibility 
on the concerned Public Information Officer to ensure that the disclosures mentioned in 
section 4 of the Act are complied with and updated every month . Further , non -compliance of 
such disclosure shall give citizens the right to register complaint before Central Information 
Commission or concerned State Information Commission under section 18 of the Act against 
such information officer. 


Hence this Bill . 


NEW DELHI; 


DUSHYANT CHAUTALA 


30 November, 2017 . 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


THE 


459 


Bill No . 16 OF 2018 
A Bill to provide for extension of Central Government Health Scheme facilities to every 
district headquarter in the country and linking the Central Government Health 

Scheme card to Aadhaar number and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1 . This Act may be called the Extension of Central Government Health Scheme to 
Every District Headquarters Bill , 2018 . 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a ) “beneficiary ” shall include the beneficiaries under the CentralGovernment 
Health Scheme (CGHS) as notified by Ministry of Health vide O . M . dated 1 .5 . 1954 
and as amended , from time to time; 


Short title. 


Definitions. 


(b ) " CGHS" shall mean the CentralGovernment Health Scheme as notified by 
Ministry of Health vide O . M . dated 1.5 . 1954 and as amended , from time to time for 
the healthcare benefits of beneficiaries; and 


460 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Extension of 
CGHS to 
district 
headquarters . 
Central 
Government to 
empanel 
Private 
Hospitals or 
Diagnostic 
Centres. 
Beneficiary to 
avail CGHS 
facilities 
irrespective of 
his place of 
residence . 


( c) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3. It shall be the responsibility of the Central Government to extend the benefits of 
the CGHS to all the district headquarters in the country in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 

4 . The Central Government shall , in absence of any Government Hospital or CGHS 
Wellness Centre , may empanel such number of Private hospitals or diagnostic centres in 
the district headquarter, as it may deem appropriate for carrying out the purposes of this 
Act. 


5 . Every beneficiary irrespective of his place of permanent residence shall be entitled 
to avail the CGHS facilities in any of the CGHS wellness centres as per his entitlement and 
rules prescribed in this behalf by the Central Government. 
" 


CGHS card to 
be linked with 
the Aadhaar. 


Power to make 
rules. 


6 . (1) For the purpose of availingmedical facilities and reimbursementclaims under 
this Act, the CGHS Card of the beneficiaries shall be linked with the Aadhaar number as 
defined under the (Aadhaar Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits 
and Services ) Act, 2016 in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The reimbursement claims shall bemade to the bank account of the beneficiary or 
in case of his death or being in comatose state to the bank account of any dependent 
beneficiary with the consent of all other dependent beneficiaries in such manner as may be 
prescribed. 

7 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment may , by notification in the Official Gazette , make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days 
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, 
before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions 
aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses 
agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such 
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification 
or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under 
that rule . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


461 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS ) is an ideal welfare measure available 
to all Central Government servants , their dependents and retired personnel, etc . in CGHS 
covered cities. In fact the scheme is most beneficial when one is advanced in age and 
ailing. As of now CGHS clinics wellness centre are functioning only in the capital city of 
most States. Non -availability of CGHS clinics or branch offices in every district makes it 
impossible for beneficiaries to avail the facility. A retired or sick person cannot travel 
across the State in his sick condition to avail themedical facility or to claim reimbursement. 
His health condition may not permit such travel. Even after illness the person may notbe 
able to afford the travel to present his bills and seek reimbursement. 


It is also necessary to link CGHS cards to Aadhaar number so that beneficiaries may 
ba assured of treatment according to their eligibility and reimbursement to their bank accounts 
when treatment becomes essential through private hospitals. 

Hence this Bill . 


MULLAPPALLY RAMACHANDRAN 


New DELHI; 
November 30 , 2017 . 


462 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for extension of the benefits of CGHS to all the district 
headquarters in the country . Clause 4 provides that the Central Government shall , in absence 
of any Government Hospital or CGHS Wellness Centre , may empanel such number of 
Private hospitals or diagnostic centres in the district headquarter , as may be necessary , for 
carrying out the purposes of this Act. The Bill , therefore, if enacted , would involve 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure 
of about rupees one thousand crore will be involved per annum from the Consolidated 
Fund of India. 


A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees five hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 7 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to the matters of detail only the delegation 
of legislative power is of a normal character. 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 
THE GAZETTE 


TRAORDINARY 


463 


Bill No . 24 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for protection of plants in the country and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1 . ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Protection of Plants Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may , by 
notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


464 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Definitions 


2 . In this Act unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " Collector" means the chief officer in charge of the revenue 
administration of a district or any other officer not below the rank of a Deputy 
Collector as may be appointed by the State Government in this behalf; 
(b ) " commencement of this Act", in relation to 

(i) a State , means commencement of this Act in that State ; 

( ii) any provision of this Act, means the commencement of that 
provision in the concerned State ; 

(c ) " director " means the person appointed as Director of Plant Life 
Preservation under clause (a ) of sub -section (1) of section 3; 

(d ) " felling ", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, 
includes 

(i) killing , cutting or mutilating of any plant and every attempt to do 


so ; 


( ii ) injuring or destroying or removing any part of the plants ; 
( iii ) damaging the seeds, seedlings , saplings , branches, roots , leaves , bark 
or other part of the plant. 

( e) " garden " includes any place where plants are grown and maintained on 
land , water, terraces, pots or other containers or hanging from any supports , or in 
green houses whether in the form of formal and planned gardens or merely growing 
on space available ; 

(f) "Government property " means any property belonging to the Government 
whether Central or State or to any Governmentor Semi-Government Department; 

(g ) "habitat" includes land , water or vegetation which is the natural home 
of any plant; 

(h ) " land" includes soil , canals, creeks, ponds and other water channels, 
reservoirs, rivers , streams and lakes , whether artificial or natural, marshes and 
wetlands and includes boulders , rocks, green houses, terraces and pots where 
plants are growing; 

(i) " license " means a license granted under this Act; 

( j) " National Board " means the National Board for Plant Life Preservation 
constituted under section 5 ; 

(k ) "national park " means an area declared under this Act or to be declared 
as a National Park ; 

(1) " notification " means a notification published in the Official Gazette ; 

( m ) " plants " includes trees , shrubs, creepers and all types of leafy plants 
that grow on land, in water or in earth s atmosphere including plant article their 
saplings, seedlings , seeds and other embryo form , if any ; 

(n ) " plant article " means an article made from any part of a plant including 
root, leaf , stem , flower, fruit , gum , seed , bark and any object in which the whole 
or any part of such planthas been used ; 

(0 ) " permit" means a permit granted under this Act or any rule made 
thereunder; 

(p ) " person " means any individual or legal person and includes a firm ; 
( 9 ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


465 


( r) " State Board " means a State Board for Plant Life Preservation constituted 
under section 7 ; 

( s ) " State Government" in relation to a Union territory , means the 
Administrator of that Union territory appointed by the President under 
article 239 of the Constitution ; 
3. (1 ) The Central Government may, for the purposes of this Act, appoint, — Appointment 

of Director and 
(a ) a Director of Plant Life Preservation ; and 

other officers. 
(b ) such other officers and employees as may be necessary. 
(2 ) In the performance of his duties and exercise of his powers by or under this 
Act, the Director shall be subject to such general or special directions, as the Central 
Governmentmay , from time to time, give . 

( 3 ) The officers and other employees appointed under this section shall be required 
to assist the Director. 

4 . ( 1) The Director may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, Power to 
by order in writing , delegate all or any of his powers and duties under this Act to any delegate . 
officer subordinate to him subject to such conditions , if any, as may be specified in the 
order. 

(2 ) Subject to any general or special direction given or condition imposed by the 
Director, any person , authorized by the Director to exercise any powers, may exercise 
those powers in the same manner and to the same effect as if they had conferred on that 
person directly by this Act and not by way of delegation . 

5 . ( 1) The Central Government shall , within three months from the date of Constitution of 
commencement of this Act, constitute the National Board for Plant Life Preservation the National 

Board for Plant 
consisting of — 

Life 
(a ) the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare as Chairperson ; Preserva 

(b ) the Union Minister of Environment, Forests and Climate Change as 
Vice - Chairperson ; 

(c ) three Members of parliament of whom two shall be from the House of 
the People and one from the Council of States — members ; 

(d ) Member, Planning Commission in - charge of Forests and Wild Life 
members; 

( e ) five persons to represent non -Governmental organisations to be 
nominated by the CentralGovernment — members; 

(f ) ten persons to be nominated by the Central Government amongst eminent 
conservationists, ecologists and environmentalists — members; 

(g ) the Secretaries to the Government of India , in - charge of the Ministry or 
Department of the Central Government dealing with Agriculture, Forests and Wild 
Life — members ; 

( h ) the Secretary to the Government of India, in - charge of the Department 
of Expenditure , Ministry of Finance — member ; 

(i) the Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Tribal Welfare 
member; 

(j) the Director-General of Forests in the Ministry or Department of the 
Central Government dealing with Forests and Wild Life — member ; 

(k ) the Director -General, Indian Council for Forestry Research and 
Education , Dehradun — member; 

(1) the Director, Botanical Survey of India — member ; 


466 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(m ) the Director, National Institute of Oceanography — member ; 

(n ) one representative each from ten States and Union territories by rotation , 
to be nominated by the Central Government — member; and 

(0 ) the Director of Agriculture Research who shall be the Member - Secretary 
of the National Board . 


( 2 ) The term of office of the Members other than those who are members 
ex -officio , the manner of filling vacancies referred to in clauses ( e ), (f) and (v ) of 
sub -section ( 1 ), and the procedure to be followed in the discharge of their functions by 
the members of the National Board shall be such , as may be prescribed . 


Functions of 
the National 
Board . 


( 3) The members ( except members ex - officio ) shall be entitled to receive such 
allowances in respect of expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as may be 
prescribed . 

(4 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in 
force , the office of a member of the National Board shall not be deemed to be an office 
of profit. 

6 . ( 1) It shall be the duty of the National Board to promote the preservation and 
development of plant life and forests , gardens, farms, parks or any place where plant 
life exists, by such measures as it thinks fit . 

( 2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision , the measures 
referred to therein may provide for — 

( a ) framing policies and advising the Central Government and the State 
Governments on the ways and means of promoting plant life preservation and 
effectively controlling , felling and illegal trade of plants and their products ; 

(b ) making recommendations on the setting up of the management of 
national parks , sanctuaries and other protected areas and on matters relating to 
restriction of activities in those areas ; 

( c ) carrying out or causing to be carried out impact assessment of various 
projects and activities on plant life or its habitat; 

( d ) reviewing from time to time, the progress in the field of Plant life 
preservation in the country and suggesting measures for improvement life in the 
country ; 

(e) preparing and publishing a status report at least once in two years on 
Plant life in the country . 

7 . ( 1 ) The State Government shall , within a period of six months from the date of 
commencement of this Act, constitute a State Board for Plant Life Preservation 
consisting of the following members, namely : 

( a ) the Chief Minister of the State and in case of the Union territory , either 
Chief Minister or Administrator, as the case may be — Chairperson ; 

(b ) the Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Forests — Vice Chairpersons; 

(c ) three members of the State Legislature or in the case of a Union territory 
with Legislature , two members of the Legislative Assembly of that Union 
territory — members; 

( d ) three person to represent non - governmental organisations dealing with 
plant life to be nominated by the State Government — members; 

(e ) ten persons to be nominated by the State Government from amongst 
eminent conservationists , ecologists and environmentalists including at least two 
representatives of the Scheduled Tribes and two agriculturists — members ; 


Constitution of 
State Board for 
Plant Life 
Preservation . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


467 


(f ) the Secretary to the State Government or the Government of the Union 
territory , as the case may be, in - charge Agriculture — member ; 


(g ) the Secretary to the State Government, Department of Tribal Welfare 
member ; 


(h ) the Secretary of Health — member ; 

(i) an officer of the State Police Department not below the rank of 
Inspector — General-member ; 


( j) a representative of the Botanical Survey of India — member ; 


( 2 ) The term of office of the members other than those who are members 
ex - officio and the manner of filling vacancies referred to in clauses (d ) and ( e ) of 
sub - section ( 1) and procedure to be followed shall be such , as may be prescribed . 


( 3 ) The member ( except members ex - officio ) shall be entitled to receive such 
allowances in respect of expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as may be 
prescribed . 


8 . ( 1) The Board shall meet atleast twice a year at such place as the State Procedure to be 

followed by the 
Government may direct. 


Board . 


(2) The Board shall regulate its own procedure ( including the quorum ). 

(3 ) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid merely by reason of the existence 
of any vacancy therein or any defect in the constitution thereof or any irregularity in the 
procedure of the Board not affecting the merits of the case . 


9 . It shall be the duty of the State Board to advise the State Government, — 


Duties of State 
Board . 


(a ) in the selection and management of species of plants to be declared as 
protected; 


(b ) in formulation of the policy for protection and Preservation of the plant life 
and specified plants ; 

(c) in any matter relating to the amendment of any Schedule ; 

(d ) in relation to the measures to be taken forharmonizing the needs of the tribal 
people and farmers and others depending on farms and plants for their livelihood , 
with the protection and Preservation of plant life; and 

(e) in any other matter connected with the protection of plant life which may be 
referred to it by the State Government. 


10 . No person shall fell, cut or maim any plant except as provided under rulesmade Prohibition of 
under this Act. 

felling plants. 


11 . (1 ) No person shall cultivate specified plants, which experts have declared to be Cultivation of 
dangerous to human life either by consumption or use or by mere proximity , except under specified plants 

without license 
and in accordance with a license granted by the District Collector or any other officer 

prohibited . 
authorized by the State Government in this behalf. 

(2) The CentralGovernment shall notpermit the cultivation of specified plants declared 
by experts to be dangerous to the eco -system or to human life. 

(3) Any person , establishment or company that finds plant in his property shall report 
the same to the District Collector. 


(4 ) The District Collector shallmaintain a record of the plants identified and /or reported 
to him under sub - section (2 ) . 


468 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


be heard and 


Complaints to 12 . ( 1) Every complaint for violation of provisions of sections 10 and 11 shall be made 

rd and to the District Magistrate in such manner as may be prescribed . 
decided by 
District 

(2 ) The District Magistrate shall upon receipt of complaint made under sub - section (1) 
Magistrate . 

dispose of the complaint in such manner as may be prescribed . 
Offences 

13 . (1 ) The District Magistrate shall , upon hearing of complaint made under 
punishable with sub - section ( 1 ) of section 12 found the person against whom the complaint is made guilty of 

offence punishable under this Act, impose a fine which may extend upto rupees ten thousand: 


fine . 


Provided that if the person against whom the complaint is made is a Company or 
establishment the amount of finemay extend upto rupees twenty five thousand ." . 


Power to make 
rules. 


14 . (1 ) The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazette , make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect , as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


469 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The protection of plants on the same lines as laws that protect rare animal and 
bird species is the need of the hour. Protection of commercial and medicinal plants 
many of which are being felled and destroyed in the name of urbanization , construction 
and industrialization requires immediate attention . Plants , like humans and animals , 
are living things. It is plants that provide man and animals essential food , medicines 
and shelter, etc . It is , therefore , absolutely essential that they be protected . 

The survival of mankind depends on the survival of the plants and trees on earth . 
The plants provide not only food , medicine, shade, spices and cover but above all it is 
the plants that provide oxygen which is essential for life. Without plants , the environment 
and human life on this earth cannot exist. Their presence is inevitable for clean air , 
food and water in this world . Plants also contribute to our economy. People of many 
countries rely on plant products for their livelihood and income. Plants -people 
relationships is so much interlinked that we need them to survive . Hence the need is to 
protect plants from wanton destruction and felling. 
The Bill , therefore, seeks to provide for 

(a ) constitution of a National Board and State Boards for Plant Life 
Preservation to frame policies and advise the Central Government and the State 
Governments on the ways and means of promoting plant life preservation and 
effectively controlling felling and illegal trade of plants and their products ; 

(b ) prohibit felling of plants; 

(c ) prohibit cultivation of specified plants without license . 
Hence this Bill. 


MULLAPPALLY RAMACHANDRAN 


New Delhi; 
December 4 , 2017 . 


470 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ Part II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the appointment of a Director of Plant Life 
Preservation and other officers and employees. Clause 5 provides for the constitution 
of the National Board for Plants Life Preservation to frame policy promoting plant life 
preservation and effectively controlling felling and illegal trade of plants and their 
products . It also provides for appointment of representatives of non - governmental 
organizations , etc . to the National Board . Clause 7 provides for the constitution of the 
State Board for Plant Life Preservation . The expenditure relating to States shall be 
borne from the Consolidated Fund of the State concerned . Whereas the expenditure in 
respect of the Union territory shall be borne from the Consolidated Fund of India . The 
Bill , therefore, if enacted , will involve recurring expenditure of rupees three crore per 
annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non - recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees five crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 4 of the Bill empowers the Director of the National Board for Plants Life 
to delegate all or any of his powers and duties under this Act to any officer subordinate 
to him subject to such conditions, if any , as may be specified in the order. Clause 10 
provides for rules for making prohibition on felling plants. Clause 14 empowers the 
Central Government to make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. As the 
delegation of powers shall relate to matters of details only, the delegation of legislative 
power is of normal character. 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 
THE GAZETTE 


ARY 


471 


471 


Bill No. 14 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for prevention of begging and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Actmay be called the Prevention of Begging Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
(3 ) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

( a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 


Short title, 
extent and 
commence 
ment. 


Definitions . 


472 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(b ) " begger" means a person who indulges in begging; 
(C) " begging" means: 

(i) soliciting alms in a public place , including railway stations, bus stops, 
road sides and public transport, by invoking compassion ; and 

(ii) entering in any private premises for the purpose of soliciting or receiving 
alms; 
(d ) " fund " means Beggars Welfare Fund established under section 6 ; and 

(e) " rehabilitation centre" means a centre established under this Act where any 
person taken into custody on the ground of begging shall be kept till the time he is 
rehabilitated . 


Abolition of 
begging. 


3. Begging by any person in any manner is hereby abolished . 


Punishment for 4 . Whoever forces or encourages any person , including a child in his care, custody or 
force 

8. charge, for begging or whoever uses any person as an exhibit for the purpose of begging , 

shall , in the first instance, be warned of indulging in such activities and if he indulges inspite 

of the warning be punished with a fine of rupees five thousand . 
Arrest of 

5. (1) Any person found begging shall be arrested by the Police. 
persons found 
begging, etc. 

(2 ) Any person so arrested shall be sent to a rehabilitation centre, to be established in 
every district by the appropriate Government, wherein such person shall be provided with 

facilities for his rehabilitation in such manner as may be prescribed . 
Beggars 

6 . (1) The Central Government shall constitute a Fund to be called the Beggars Welfare 
Welfare Fund . 

Fund for the welfare of the beggars. 

( 2) The fund shall be utilised by the Central Government as and when required for the 

welfare and rehabilitation of beggars . 
Formulation of 

7. (1) The appropriate Government shall formulate such schemes,work out such plans, 
schemes and 

including plans for provision of education , and create suitable infrastructure in every district 
plans for 
beggars , etc. so as to enable beggars to take up suitable jobs for earning their livelihood . 

(2) The appropriate Government shall set up destitute homes for providing food , shelter 
and protection , to the old , infirm , helpless and destitute persons so as to discourage them 

from indulging in begging. 
Power to make 8. ( 1) The Central Governmentmay, by notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules 

for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions, aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have affect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


rules. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


473 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Despite all efforts made and welfare measures taken by the Central Government and 
the State Governments , the practice of begging continues unabated all over the country, 
especially in the metropolitan cities and urban areas . There are organised gangs who exploit 
innocent children and force them into begging not for the sustenance of these boys and girls 
but for gathering alms for the gang leaders and organizers. Some people kidnap children and 
force them to go for begging and collect huge amount ofmoney. 

The number of beggars in the country has increased manifold . As per an estimate the 
number is somewhere around fifty lakhs. 


While , the old and infirm beggars can be sent to destitute homes , the other beggars 
should be given education and training so that they can get gainful employment. 

Therefore, it is high time that a law for prevention of begging be enacted . 
Hence this Bill. 


SUNIL KUMAR SINGH 


NEW DELHI; 
January 1, 2018 . 


474 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 5 of the Bill provides for establishment of " rehabilitation centres" in every 
districtby the appropriate Government. Clause 6 provides for setting up of Beggars Welfare 
Fund . Clause 7 provides for formulation of schemes and creating suitable infrastructure by 
appropriate Government in every district so as to enable beggars to take up suitable jobs. It 
further provides for setting up of destitute homes by the appropriate Government. The Bill , 
therefore , if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India. It is 
likely to involve a recurring expenditure of about rupees five hundred crore per annum . 

A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the 
provisions of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of details only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of normal character. 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


XTRAORDINARY 


475 


475 


Bill No. 12 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the gender specific needs of women farmers, to protect their 
legitimate needs and entitlements and to empower them with rights over 
agricultural land , water resources and other related rights and for 
other functions relating thereto and for matters 

connected therewith . 


WHEREAS women constitute more than fifty per cent of Indian farmers and about sixty 
per cent of the workforce in the farming sector; and in view of the increasing feminisation of 
agriculture as a result of out-migration of men , entitlements for women farmers are essential 
for the future growth and health of agriculture, as well as protection of food security in an 
era of climate change; 


AVON 


AND WHEREAS it is necessary to recognize and protect the gender specific needs and 
rights of the women by empowering and entitling them with enforceable rights over 
agricultural land, water resources , credit and other related rights; 


476 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


AND WHEREAS theMarried Women s Property Act, 1874 recognised the wages, earnings 
and other property acquired by a married woman in any employment, occupation or trade 
carried on by her in her individual capacity as her separate property ; the Hindu Succession 
( Amendment) Act, 2005 entitled the daughter of a Joint Hindu family governed by the 
Mitakshara law , to become a coparcener in her own right in the same manner as the son and 
clothes her with the samerights and liabilities in the coparcenary property as she would have 
had if she had been a son ; the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers 
(Recognition of Forest Rights ) Act, 2006 recognised the rights of forest-dwelling communities 
to the forest land and other forest resources; 


AND WHEREAS the Government of India has recognized the special needs of women 
farmers by initiating a "Mahila Kisan Shashaktikaran Pariyojana " programme under the 
National Rural Livelihood Mission ; 


AND WHEREAS India is a party to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination against Women (CEDAW ), 1979 which calls for elimination of all forms of 
discrimination of women by ensuring equal access to agricultural credit and loans,marketing 
facilities, appropriate technology and equal treatment in land and agrarian reform as well as 
in land resettlement schemes ; 


AND WHEREAS the Fourth World Conference on Women in September, 1995 , in which 
India participated , called for legislative and administrative reforms to give women equal 
rights with men to economic resources, including access to ownership and control over land 
and other properties, credit inheritance , natural resources , and appropriate new technology , 
etc . as embodied in the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action ; 


AND WHEREAS it is considered necessary to implement the decisions in so far as they 
relate to the women farmers entitlements under Article 253 of the Constitution of India . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


CHAPTER I 


PRELIMINARY 


1 . ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Women Farmers Entitlements Act, 2018 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement . 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 


Definitions. 


(3 ) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Government may , by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires 

(a ) " agriculture " means and includes, all activities related to cultivation of crops, 
animal husbandary, poultry, livestock rearing, apiculture , gardening, fishing , aquaculture, 
sericulture , vermiculture , horticulture , floriculture, agro -forestry, or any other farming 
activity carried out through self -employment, tenurial cultivation , share cropping , or 
other types of cultivation including shifting cultivation , collection , use and sale ofminor 
or non -timber forest produce by virtue of ownership rights or usufructory rights; 


(b ) " agricultural activity " means any activity related to agriculture ; 


(c) " farmer" means any person who is , individually or jointly with any other 
person , 


(i) engaged in agriculture directly or through the supervision of others ; or 

(ii) contributes to conservation or preservation of agriculture related 
varieties or seeds or breeds of farm animals ; or 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


477 


( iii) contributes through traditional knowledge to any type of innovation , 
conservation or to propagation of new agricultural varieties or to agricultural 
cultivation methods or practices or to the practice of crop - livestock integrated 
farming system ; or 


(iv ) promotes agro -processing, and value - addition to primary products . 
Explanation . — The term " farmer" will include , but not limited to , agriculture operational 
holders, landless cultivators, agricultural labourers , planting labourers, pastoralists , 
sharecroppers and tenants. The term shall not include corporate entities operated by or 
involving farmers. In case of landless farmers migrating or moving from one State to another, 
if anyone stays in a State for at least six months , such person may be considered as a farmer 
in that particular State . 

(d ) " guidelines" means the guidelines framed by the Authority under this Act 
with the previous approval of the Central Government by notification in the Official 
Gazette . 


(e) " land " means any land or water body utilised for the purpose of agriculture. 

(f) " woman farmer" means and includes, irrespective of marital status or 
ownership of land, any woman who is a farmer as defined in sub- section (c ) of section 2 
and includes 


(i) any woman living in rural area and primarily engaged in agricultural 
activity, though occasionally engaged in non -agricultural activity ; or 

(ii) any woman living in urban or semi-urban areas and engaged in 
agriculture ; or 

(iii ) any tribal woman directly or indirectly engaged in agriculture or 
shifting cultivation or in the collection , use and sale of minor or non -timber 
forest produce by virtue of usufructary rights . 
(g ) " rules " means rules notified by the Central Government under this Act. 


CHAPTER II 


CERTIFICATION OF WOMAN FARMER 


3. (1) A Woman Farmer Certificate issued by the Gram Panchayat, after the approval Certification of 
of the Gram Sabha and authenticated by the Village Administrative Officer or an authorized Woman 
officer of the Gram Panchayat as may be prescribed in the rules , shall be the conclusive 
proof of declaring a person as a woman farmer. 


Farmer. 


( 2 ) For urban or peri-urban areas, the certificate shall be issued by the urban local 
body with the approval of any corresponding authority as notified under the rules : 

Provided that a group of women farmers may obtain the Group Women Farmers 
Certificate in the same process as may be prescribed . 

4 . The woman farmer certificate issued under section 3, shall be accepted as evidence Acceptance of 
for the purposes of establishing the status of a person as a woman farmer under this Act Certificate as 

evidence. 
including in all administrative and judicial proceedings . 

CHAPTER III 


LAND RIGHTS 


5 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force , Equal land 
every woman shall have equal ownership and inheritance rights over her husband s self rights to 
acquired agricultural land , or his share of family property , or his share of land transferred by 
the Government under land reform or resettlement scheme: 


women farmer. 


478 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Provided that concurrence of both the spouses shall be necessary in the case of land 
transfer or acquisition as per the provision of the provided land acquisition and rehabilitation 
law . 


Explanation . For the purposes of this section , a woman farmer shall be deemed to 
have ownership and possession of equal and proportional share of agricultural property in 
her husband s property even , if, it is notmentioned in any of the relevant documents and the 
fact that she is the wife of a particular person is the conclusive proof to claim ownership and 
possession of her share of property and to have effective control over such share of property . 

CHAPTER IV 


WATER RIGHTS 


Equal right to 
water 
resources. 


6 . A woman farmer shall have equal right, as enjoyed by male farmers, to all water 
resources connected with the agricultural land to which she is the owner, shareholder, possessor 
or uses for farming activity and shall have access to water, water resources and irrigation 
facilities for carrying out agricultural activities as defined in this Act. 


No 


discrimination 
for irrigation 
purposes. 


7 . The woman farmers shall not be discriminated on the grounds of marital status , 
religion , caste , ownership or possession of agricultural land while accessing water resources 
for irrigation purposes . 

CHAPTER V 


Entitlement of 
women farmers 
to get credits , 
loans and other 
financial 
supports . 


LEGAL ACCESS TO CREDIT AND OTHER 

AGRICULTURAL INPUTS 
8 .Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and 
subject to the provisions of this Act, 

(i) every woman farmer or group of women farmers who have a certificate of 
Woman Farmer from the appropriate authority shall be entitled to Kisan Credit Card 
which as of now available mainly to male farmers. 

( ii ) a woman farmer or group of women farmers shall be entitled to borrow 
money and other financial support for agricultural activity either on her own capacity 
or as a member of a women group as may be prescribed in the Rules without any 
discrimination on the grounds of marital status , place of residence , caste , religion , or 
absence of collateral security . 

CHAPTER VI 


FUND FOR SUPPORT SERVICES TO WOMEN FARMERS 


Establishment 
of fund . 


9 . (1) The CentralGovernment shall set up a Central Agricultural Development Fund 
for Women Farmers (CADFWF) under this Act, which shall be used to empower women 
farmers like , incentives for development of women farmer friendly technologies , training 
and capacity building , creation of market facilities, organization of creches and day care 
centres , social security for women farmers, old age pensions and other related issues asmay 
be prescribed in the Rules . 


( 2 ) The Fund shall operate at the Central, State and District levels and shall be 
administered under the guidance of an appropriate Authority to be appointed by the Central 
Government at the Central level and offices of the authority appointed in consultation with 
the State Governments at the State and District level in such manner as may be prescribed . 


( 3 ) The Fund shall receive contributions and grants from the Central and State Governments, 
user fees as specified under the Rules and guidelines framed under this Act. 

(4 ) The Authority shall support individual and groups of women farmers organized in 
the form of registered women s cooperatives or Mahila Kisan Kendras as per the guidelines 
framed under the Act. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


479 


(5) The appropriate authority shall frame guidelines with the previous approval of the 
Central Government by notification in the official gazette for distribution and utilization of 
the Fund. 

(6 ) The CentralGovernment shall frame a scheme for social security ofwomen farmers, 
especially old age pension as may be prescribed . 

(7 ) The appropriate authority shall also have the power to secure lands from the 
Government and other sources for distribution of lands to women farmers as prescribed 
under this Act. 

10 . Any person who wants to develop women - friendly technology, may qualify for Women farmer 
short term and long term loans or grants or subsidies or venture capital from the Fund as per friendly 

technology . 
the guidelines framed under the Act. 

Explanation . — The terms any person in this section means individuals and small and 
medium scale industries . 


11. The appropriate authority shall create and facilitate market facilities for women Market 
farmers with the assistance of group of women farmers or of its own in different parts of the facilities. 
country including the establishment of rural godowns. 

12. The appropriate authority shall organise regular and periodical training and capacity Training and 
building programmes for women farmers in different parts of the country to make them capacity 
aware of the provisions of this Act and to help them in realizing their entitlements and 
empowerments envisaged under this Act. 


be 


CHAPTER VII 


IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING AUTHORITIES , THEIR 

RESPONSIBILITIES 


13 . The Central Government shall be responsible for overall implementation and Responsibilities 

of Central 
monitoring of the Act, except as provided in this Act. 

Government. 


of State 


14 . (1 ) The State Governments shall be responsible for implementation andmonitoring Responsibilities 
of provisions relating to certification of women farmers, realization of land and water rights, of 

Governments . 
operationalization of the Fund at the State and District levels and other responsibilities as 
mentioned in this Act. 

(2 ) The State Government shall appoint appropriate authorities for carrying out such 
functions . 


( 3 ) The offices of the authority set set up in consultation with the State Government 
shall ensure that the land rights and water rights of the women farmers are institutionalized 
within the State with suitable amendments to the laws and/ or Gazette notification . 


15 . For implementing different provisions and schemes of this Act , the local authorities Responsibilities 
like the Panchayati Raj Institutions in rural areas and Urban localbodies in urban areas shall of local 
be responsible for discharging such duties or responsibilities as may be assigned by notification 

authorities. 
to them by the concerned State Governments. 


16 . ( 1) Each State Government shall set up a Women Farmers Entitlement Board Women 
at the State level to advice the State Government in implementation and monitoring of the farmers 

Entitlement 
Act. 

Board . 
(2 ) The Board shall consist of a practising woman farmer as its Chairperson and two 
other members dealing with or experienced in technology, credit, inputs and marketing . 


( 3) The tenure of the Board members shall be such as prescribed under the Rules. 


(4 ) The Board shall follow such procedure in its proceedings as may be prescribed in 
the rules . 


480 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


District 
Vigilance 
Committee . 


Redressal of 
grievances. 


Penalty for non 
compliance of 
provisions of 
this Act. 
Cognizance of 
offences . 


17. (1) For ensuring transparency in functioning of this Act and accountability of the 
functionaries, every State Government shall set up a District Vigilance Committee in every 
district. 

( 2) The Composition of the Vigilance Committee shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 

( 3 ) The Vigilance Committees shall look into effective implementation of all the 
provisions of the Act at the district level . 

18 . For expeditious and effective redressal of grievances of women farmers, each 
State Government shall set up effective institutional mechanisms at the taluka or tehsil or 
block level and an appellate mechanism at the District level in such manner as may be 
prescribed under the Rules. 

CHAPTER VIII 

PENALTIES AND PROCEDURES 
19 . Whoever fails to comply with provisions of this Act, rules or guidelines made 
under this Act shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than 
six months but which may extend to one year and with fine, or with both . 

20 . (1 ) Any person aggrieved by violation of any provision of this Act, rules or guidelines 
made under this Actmay file a complaint, within ninety days from the date of such violation , 
to a Court not inferior to that of a Judicial Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan 
Magistrate : 

Provided that the Courtmay entertain any complaint after the expiry of the said 
period of ninety days if its is satisfied that the complainantwas prevented by sufficient 
cause from filing the complaint within time. 
( 2) For the purposes of sub -section (1), person means — 

( a ) any women farmer who is affected ; 

(b ) husband or representative of the women farmer who is affected ; Actions in 
good faith . Overriding effect. Power to give directions; 

(c) any association of person of farmers (whether incorporated or not), if it is 
affected or on behalf of an affected women farmer ; 

(d ) any local authority within whose local limits the affected women farmer or 
association of persons or farmers live. 

21. No prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any person for anything 
done or intended to be done in good faith . 

CHAPTER IX 


Protection of 
action taken in 
good faith . 


Overriding 
effect. 


Power to give 
directions. 


MISCELLANEOUS 
22 . The Provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force other than this Act. 

23. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force 
but subject to the provisions of this Act, the Central Government may , issue directions in 
writing to any person , officer or any authority in order to give effect to the provisions of this 
Act and such person , officer or authority shall be bound to comply with such directions . 

24 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if the State Government, after 
consultation with , or on the recommendation of the local body or authority, is of opinion 
that certain provision or provisions of this Act need not apply to certain areas of the State , it 
may , by notification in the OfficialGazette, restrict the application of such provisions of this 
Act to such area or areas as may be declared therein and thereupon such provisions of this 
Act shall not apply to such area or areas. 


Power of State 
Government to 
restrict the 
application of 
the Act to 
certain areas . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


481 


Power to 


remove of 


25 . ( 1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions not 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act to remove the difficulty : 


difficulties. 


DO 


Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two 
years from the commencement of this Act. 


( 2 ) Every order made under this section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is 
made, before each House of Parliament. 


26 . ( 1) The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazette, make Power to make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

Rules. 
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such 
rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: 

(a ) issuance of Women Farmer Certificate under Section 3 ; 
(b ) facilitating financial support for women farmers under section 8 ; 

(c ) utilization of Central Agricultural Development Fund for Women Farmers 
(CADFWF) under section 9 ; 

(d ) functions and proceedings of the Women Farmers Entitlement Board under 
sub -section ( 3) of section 16 ; 

(e ) Composition of District Vigilance Committee in every district under 
section 17 ; 

(H) institutionalmechanism for expeditious and effective redressal of grievances 
of women farmers under section 18 . 

( 3 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
or regulation should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified 
form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or 
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that 
rule . 


482 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


With a gradual decline in the size of farm holdings, small and marginal farmer families 
are in need of multiple sources of income to come out of the poverty trap . Ruralmen belonging 
to resource poor families increasingly tend to go to towns and cities seeking work and income 
earning opportunities . Consequently , there is an increasing feminization of agriculture . While 
women farmers are extremely hard working and are also conversant with sustainable 
agriculture practices, they suffer from several handicaps such as title to land , and access to 
credit , inputs , insurance, technology and market. As early as 1995 , the Fourth World 
Conference on Women held in Beijing urged developing countries to pay attention to the 
gender specific needs of women farmers . India is on the threshold of enacting a landmark 
Food Security Bill. Legal entitlements to food can be implemented only by improving the 
productivity, profitability and sustainability of small farm holdings , since small and marginal 
farmers produce nearly fifty percent of the foodgrains in the country, as well as milk and a 
wide variety of vegetables and fruits . In order to safeguard national food security, and to 
strengthen the livelihood security of rural women , a majority of whom are engaged in crop 
and animal husbandry, fisheries, agro -forestry and agro -processing ,the Bill is being proposed . 
It is necessary to implement the aforesaid decisions under article 253 of the Constitution of 
India in so far as they relate to the women farmers entitlements . 


SUNIL KUMAR SINGH 


New Delhi; 
January 1, 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


483 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 9 of the Bill provides for Establishment of a Central Agricultural Development 
Fund for Women Farmers. It also provides for appointment of an appropriate Authority to 
administer the Fund at Central, State and District level. Clause 11 empowers the appropriate 
Authority to create and facilitate market facilities for women farmers. Clause 12 provides 
for organising training and capacity building programmes for women farmers. Clause 16 
provides that State Governments shall set up Women Farmers Entitlement Board as State 
level. It also provides for appointment of a practising woman farmer as its chairperson . 
Clause 17 provides for setting up of District Vigilance Committee . Clause 18 provides for 
setting institutional mechanisms at taluka or tehsil level for redressal of grievances . The 
expenditure relating to State shall be borne out of the Consolidated funds of the State 
Government concerned . However, the expenditure relating to Union territories shall be borne 
out of the Consolidated Fund of India . The Bill, therefore , if enacted would involve 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure 
of about rupees ten crore per annum would involve from the Consolidated Fund of India . A 
Non - recurring expenditure of about rupees one thousand crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Authority to make guidelines with the previous 
approval of the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette . Clause 26 
empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Bill . 
As the matters in respect of which rules, guidelines may be made or framed relate to matters 
of procedure or administrative detail and it is not practicable to provide for them in the Bill 
itself, the delegation of legislative power is , therefore, of a normal character. 


484 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Bill No. 33 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 
commencement. 


1. This Act may be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 


Amendment of 
article 15 . 


2 . In article 15 of the Constitution , 

“ (i) in clause ( 1), after the words " place of birth " , the word “ disability ” shallbe 
inserted . 


( ii) in clause ( 2 ), after the words “ place of birth ” , the word “ disability ” shall be 
inserted . 


(iii ) in clause (4 ), after the words “ the Scheduled Tribes” , the words “ or the 
persons with disabilities ” shall be inserted . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


485 


( iv ) in clause (5 ), after the words “ the Scheduled Tribes ” , the words “ or for 
persons with disabilities” shall be inserted . 
3 . In article 16 of the Constitution , - 


Amendment of 
article 16 . 


Amendment of 
article 39 . 


(i) in clause ( 2) after the words “ place of birth , residence ” , the word “ disability " 
shall be inserted . 

(ii ) in clause (4 ) after the words “ under the State ” , the words “ or in favour of 
the persons with disabilities” shall be inserted . 
4 . In article 39 of the Constitution , - 

(i) in sub- clause (a ) for the words “ and women ” , the words “ , women and 
persons with disabilities” shall be substituted . 

( ii) in sub -clause (d ) for the words “ and women ” , the words “ , women and 
persons with disabilities ” shall be substituted . 

(iii ) in sub - clause (e ) for the words “ and women ” , the words “ , women and 
persons with disabilities ” shall be substituted . 
5. After article 46 of the Constitution ,the following be inserted , namely: 


Insertion of 
new article 
46A 


“ 46A . The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic 
interests of persons with disabilities and shall protect them from social injustice and 
from all forms of exploitation .” 


Promotion of 
educational 
and economic 
interests of 
persons with 
disabilities . 


486 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Persons with disabilities remain one of the most marginalised communities in the 
country . Occurrences of stigma and discrimination are common in the lives of these persons . 
This is despite India s engagement with international conventions for persons with disabilities. 
India had adopted the Proclamation on the Full Participation and Equality of Persons with 
Disabilities in the Asian and the Pacific Region in December, 1992 . Nine years after India 
ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD ) 
in 2007 , the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 came into force. The Act aimed 
to empower persons with disabilities by providing legal redress against discrimination , access 
to education and employment. 

Despite the 22 year long existence of Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunity 
Protection ofRights and Full Participation ) Act, 1995 ; its revamp through Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016 and India s ratification of UNCRPD , progress has been slow . 
Seventy million disabled Indians continue to face discrimination and don t get access to 
public services, formal employment and education . Reportedly only seven States have a 
separate department for dealing with matters concerning persons with disability . According 
to the World Disability Report 2011 , 87 % of persons with disabilities work in the informal 
sector in India . The same report also pointed that the share of disabled children not enrolled 
in schools in the more prosperous States in India is more than five times the national rate. 
The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is responsible for special schools for 
children with disabilities while the Department of Education is responsible for children in 
mainstream schools. This segregation has developed a cultural perception that more than 
equality of opportunity, children with disabilities are in need of welfare . These perceptions 
lead to stereotyping children with disabilities and breed negative attitudes. 

TheHon ble Supreme Court in the case of Jeeja Ghosh versus Union of India observed 
that, equality not only implies preventing discrimination , but goes beyond in remedying 
discrimination against groups suffering systematic discrimination in society. In concrete 
terms, it means embracing the notion of positive rights, affirmative action and reasonable 
accommodation . The move from the patronising and paternalistic approach to persons with 
disabilities represented by the medicalmodel to viewing them as members of the community 
with equal rights has also been reflected in the evolution of international standards relating 
specifically to disabilities, as well as in moves to place the rights of persons with disabilities 
within the category of universal human rights. 

Although section 3 of the Rights of persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 ensures equality 
and non -discrimination the same has not been matched with amendments in the Constitution . 


Therefore , it has been proposed that article 15 , Article 16 and Directive Principles of 
the Constitution be amended so that all policies, laws and regulations are designed keeping 
in view the interests of persons with disabilities . It will empower persons with disabilities as 
they can seek redressal for violation of their fundamental right against discrimination . By 
amending its Constitution , India will join the league of developed nations like Canada , 
Germany,UK that guarantee equal Rights to persons with disabilities in their Constitution . 

Hence this Bill. 


SHRI BHAIRON PRASAD MISHRA 


NEW DELHI; 
January 15 , 2018 . 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


487 


Bill No. 40 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory 

Education Act, 2009. 
Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows : 

1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Short title 
(Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

and commence 

ment. 
( 2) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 

2. In the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act , 2009 (hereinafter Amendment 
referred to as the principal Act), in the long title for the word “ fourteen ” the word “ eighteen ” of lo 
shall be substituted . 
3 . In section 2 of the principal Act , 

Amendment 

of section 2 . 
(i) in clause (c ), for the word “ fourteen ” the word “ eighteen ” shall be substituted . 


35 of 2009. 


e . 


488 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Amendment 
of section 3 . 


( ii ) in clause (n ), after the words “ elementary education ” , the words “ and 
secondary education ” shall be inserted . 
(iii ) after clause (o ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

“ (p ) secondary education means the education from ninth to twelfth class 
wherein classes ninth and tenth constitute the secondary stage and classes eleventh 

and twelfth constitute the higher secondary stage;" 
4 . In section 3 of the principal Act, in clause (1), 

(i) for the word “ fourteen ” the word “ eighteen ” shall be substituted ; and 

( ii ) for the word “ elementary ” the words “ elementary and secondary ” shall be 
substituted . 
5 . In section 4 of the principal Act , 

(i) for the word “ elementary” the words “ elementary and secondary” shall be 
substituted ; and 
( ii ) for the second proviso the following be substituted , namely : 

“ Provided further that a child so admitted to elementary or secondary 
education shall be entitled to free education till completion of secondary education 

even after eighteen years.” 
6 . In section 5 of the principal Act, in clauses ( 1) and (2) for the word “ elementary ” the 
words " elementary and secondary ” shall be substituted . 


Amendment 
of section 4 . 


Amendment 
of section 5 . 


Amendment 
of section 8 . 


7 . In section 8 of the principal Act, for the words “ elementary ” and “ fourteen ” wherever 
they occur the words “ elementary and secondary ” and “ eighteen ” shall respectively be 
substituted . 


Amendment 
of section 9. 


Amendment of 
section 10 . 


Amendment of 
section 11. 


8 . In section 9 of the principal Act, for the words “ elementary ” and “ fourteen ” wherever 
they occur the words “ elementary and secondary” and “ eighteen ” shall respectively be 
substituted . 

9 . In section 10 of the principal Act, for the words “ an elementary education ” the 
words “ a pre -school and if not at least to an elementary education ” shall respectively be 
substituted . 

10 . In section 11 of the principal Act, for the word “ may ” the word “ shall” shall be 
substituted . 

11. In section 12 of the principal Act, for the word “ elementary ” wherever it occurs the 
words “ elementary and secondary ” shall be substituted . 

12 . In section 14 of the principal Act , in clause ( 1) for the word “ elementary ” the 
words “ elementary and secondary ” shall be substituted . 

13 . In section 33 of the principal Act, in clause (1 ) for the word “ elementary ” the 
words “ elementary and secondary ” shall be substituted . 


Amendment of 
section 12 . 


Amendment of 
section 14 . 


Amendment of 
section 33 . 


Amendment of 
section 34 . 


14 . In section 34 of the principal Act, in clause (1 ) for the word “ elementary ” the 
words “ elementary and secondary ” shall be substituted . 


Amendment of 
section 38 . 


15 . In section 38 of the principal Act, in clause (2) 

(i) in sub -clause (c) for the word “ fourteen” the word “ eighteen ” be substituted ; 


and 


( ii) in sub-clause (0 ), for the word “ elementary” the words " elementary and 
secondary ” shall be substituted . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


489 


16 . In the Schedule to the principal Act, 


Amendment 
of Schedule. 


(i) in Sl. No . 1, after item (b ), the following shall be inserted , namely, 
" (c) For ninth class to twelfth class 

(i) at lease one teacher for every thirty children ; 
(ii) subject -wise Trained Graduate Teacher and PostGraduate Teacher; 

(iii) specialized teachers for Physical Education , Art or Craft and 
Culture Education ; 

( iv) counselor for emotional and psychological support , as per school 
counseling programme; 

(v ) career counselor. 
(ii) in Sl.No. 2, in norms and standards, after (vii ), the following shall be inserted , 
namely, 

“ (viii) one integrated science laboratory — for Physics, Chemistry, Biology 
and Mathematics for classes ninth to twelfth (one room for science laboratory in 
a secondary school and at least three laboratories for science subjects ) in higher 
secondary schools ; 


(ix ) computer room for classes ninth to twelfth ; 


(x ) art or Craft Culture Laboratory ; 
(xi) provisions to make the building disabled friendly ; 
(xii ) a rainwater harvesting system ; 


(xiii ) classrooms with a classroom — pupil ratio of 1 :40 for classes ninth 
to twelfth .” 


( iii ) in Sl. No. 3, in norms and standards , after ( iv ), the following shall be inserted , 
namely , — 


“ (v ) a minimum of two hundred and twenty working days for classes ninth 
to twelfth ; 

( vi ) one thousand two hundred hours per academic year for the teaching 
and planning, out of which not more than two hundred hours may be required to 
be devoted for remedial teaching and attention to weak students for ninth class 
and tenth class ; 


( vii) one thousand two hundred hours per academic year for teaching and 
planning, out of which not more than two hundred hours may be required to be 
devoted for remedial teaching and attention to weak students for eleventh class 
and twelfth class .” 


(iv ) Sl. No. 5 shall be deleted . 
(v) for Sl.No. 7, the following shall be substituted , namely, — 
“ 7 . Teaching learning equipment 

(i) shall be provided to each class as required ; 

( ii ) necessary equipment for Physics , Chemistry, Biology and 
Mathematics will be needed initially to facilitate academic activities in 
laboratories for classes ninth to twelfth ; 

(iii ) sports , music , dance , painting, culture, teaching aids.” 


490 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Secondary education is an important stage in the educationalhierarchy. It is essential 
to ensure greater access to secondary education by making it free and compulsory. The 
vision of Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA ) was to make good quality 
education available, accessible and affordable to all young persons in the age group of 
fourteen to eighteen years. Among the other goals, it aims to achieve Universal retention by 
2020 , a Gross Enrollment Ratio of 100 % by 2017 and access to education with special 
references to economically weaker sections of the society . The guiding principle of this 
policy includes Universal Access . 

India adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals by the United Nations in 2015 . 
Goal aims to ensure inclusive and quality education for all. It highlights that getting access 
to quality education can help set a strong foundation to improve lives. It also points out that 
while several countries have achieved gender equality in primary education , very few have 
managed to achieve the target at all levels of education . 


India has shown tremendous progress in primary education with the implementation 
of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE ) Act, 2009 . However, 
there have not been adequate parallel initiatives to ensure access to secondary education . 
As per the 2016 report by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation 
(UNESCO ), Institute for Statistics and Global Education Monitoring , 47 million youth 
drop out of school by the 10th standard in India . The literacy rates for the 15 and above age 
groups remains average at 59. 3 % for females and 78 . 8 % formales in 2011. Similarly, the 
Gross Enrollment Ratio was at 78 .5 % for students in the Secondary level of school education 
in 2014 - 15 . This means that 25 . 5 % of the students in this age group do not enroll themselves 
in schools . In 2013-14 , the annual dropout rate of students in the secondary level of school 
education stands high at 17 .86 % . For students belonging to the Scheduled Tribes, it is 
staggering at 27 . 2 % and 18 .66 % for students belonging to the Scheduled Castes. 


Therefore, it has been proposed that the coverage for RTE Act, 2009 be extended to 
three to eighteen years. This will cover the secondary level of education and help India 
achieve the Sustainable DevelopmentGoal of Quality Education as well as the objectives 
set under RMSA . It will also encourage State Governments to strengthen their anganwadi 
system or create more pre -schools . As a result, India will truly be able to ensure universal 
access to education to all children in the age group of three to eighteen years. 

Hence this Bill. 


BHAIRON PRASAD MISHRA 


NEW DELHI; 
January 15 , 2018 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


491 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


The Government of India incurred an expenditure of Rs. 3562 crores in 2015 - 16 on 
Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan . The Budget for the scheme in 2016 - 17 was 
Rs. 3700 crores while in 2017 - 18 , it was Rs. 3830 crores . It is increased by about 3.5 % 
every year. The Bill will involve an expenditure that will be about 15 % more than the 
expenditure on the scheme. The Bill, therefore if enacted , will involve expenditure from 
the Consolidated Fund of India. It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure of 
about rupees four thousand five hundred and fifty eight crore is likely to be involved . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees one thousand crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


492 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Bill No. 42 OF 2018 


Short title and 
commencement. 


A Bill further to amend the Indian Penal Code, 1860 . 
Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernment may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2 . After section 141 of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 , the following proviso shall be 45 of 1860 . 
inserted , namely : 

“ Provided that nothing in this section shallapply to peaceful protest by recognised 
National Political Parties on public roads or streets .” 


Amendment 
of section 141. 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


493 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Section 141 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 declares an assembly of five or more 
persons as unlawful for various purposes including holding public meetings by the road 
side . The Division Bench of Kerala High Court has banned holding public meetings beside 
public roads and directed the police , public works department and local self-Government 
not to grant permissions to hold such meetings and asked the police to take legal action 
against violation . 

The Constitution also allows the State to impose reasonable restrictions on the 
fundamental rights. But it also explains the concrete conditions in which such restrictions 
can be imposed . The Constitution states that such restrictions can be imposed only in the 
interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State , friendly relations 
with foreign countries, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court 
or defamation or incitement of an offence . 

The Bill proposes to protect the fundamental rights of the national political parties 
from any infringement due to State intervention . 


Hence this Bill. 


BHAIRON PRASAD MISHRA 


NEW DELHI; 
January 15 , 2018. 


494 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Bill No. 41 OF 2018 


A Bill to constitute a Labour Welfare and Rehabilitation Authority to look into the 
dynamic trends in the labour market , provide for schemes to give interest free loans to 
workers unemployed for certain periods, issue guidelines for social sector schemes 

including universal basic income for all working in private and public sector, 
provide for wages during non -work time for seasonally employed workers, 
provide for hardship bonus for plantation workers, formulate schemes for 
rehabilitation of workers of closed industries and for all matters 

connected therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -nineth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Labour (Welfare and Rehabilitation ) Act , 2018 . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date, as the Central Governmentmay , by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a ) " Annual Report" means a report giving the details of developmental activities 
taken up over the year by the Authority and detailing about targets set and achieved ; 


Definitions. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


495 


(b ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State or a Union territory 
having legislature , the concerned State Government or the Union territory Government, 
as the case may be, and in all other cases , the CentralGovernment; 


(c ) " Authority " means the Labour Welfare and Rehabilitation Authority 
constituted under section 3 ; 


and 


(d ) " health certificate" means a document signed by a competent health authority 
providing proof that person is healthy and competent to work ; and 

(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by the rules made under this Act. 
3. (1) With effect from such date as the Central Government may, by notification , Constitution of 
appoint, there shall be constituted , for the purposes of this Act , an Authority to be known as 

Labour Welfare 
the Labour Welfare and Rehabilitation Authority : 

Rehabilitation 

Authority . 
(2 ) The Authority shall consist of - 

(a ) the Union Minister of Ministry of Labour and Employment 
ex officio Chairperson ; 

(b ) the Secretaries of the Union Ministeries of Labour and Employment, Heavy 
Industries and Statistics and Programme Implmentation — ex officio Members ; 

(c) the Director General V.V .GiriNationalLabour Institute — ex officio Member ; 

(d ) the Director, Central Board for Workers Education , Union Ministry ofLabour 
and Employment — ex officio Member ; and 


(e ) the Director, Directorate General of Employment, Union Ministry of Labour 
and Employment — ex officio Member. 

( 3 ) The Central Government shall appoint such number of officers and staff as it 
considers necessary for the efficient functioning of the Authority . 


(4) the salary and allowances payable to and other terms of conditions of services of 
officers and staff of the Authority shall be such , as may be prescribed , from time to time. 


(5 ) the head office of the Authority shall be at New Delhi and the Authority may 
establish offices at other places in the country as it may deem necessary for carrying out the 
purposes of this Act. 


4 . ( 1 ) The Authority shall meet at such interval and place and shall determine its own Meetings of 
procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings as may be prescribed . 

the Authority. 
(2) The expenditure incurred to attend meetings by the Members referred to in 
sub -clauses (a ) to (e ) of section 3 shall be borne by their concerned controlling authorities. 

5. (1) The Authority shall discharge such functions as itmay deem necessary to ensure Functions of 
welfare and rehabilitation of workers in the country and formulate a comprehensive policy the Authority . 
within one year of its constitution for carrying out the purposes of the Act. 

(2 ) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub -section (1), the Authority 
shall perform the following functions: 

(a ) to undertake a baseline study to collect comprehensive data about the existing 
minimum working standards in all industries and necessary data on the labour industry 
which shall be completed within one year of setting up of the Authority ; 

(b ) to formulate a scheme for giving interest free loans for workers who are 
unemployed upto a certain period till they get employment; 

(c ) to recommend to the appropriate Government to formulate social security 
schemes including a universal basic income for all workers in private and public 
enterprises; 


496 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(d ) to formulate scheme for providing wages all through the year for those 
employed seasonally ; 

(e ) to study and recommend schemes including hardships bonus for workers in 
the plantation sector and other heavy industry sector; 

(f) to study existing safety guidelines for workers and formulate a comprehensive 
set of common guidelines for workers keeping in line with international standards; 

(g ) to undertake organisation of labour fairs and labour awards region -wise 
and sector- wise for creating greater awareness on importance of a high quality labour 
force ; 

(h ) to create an establishment to maintain data of workers of closed sick industries 
and to formulate schemes for the welfare of such workers ; 


Annual Report 
and its laying 
before 
Parliament. 


(i) to undertake , promote and publish studies relating to the importance of labour 
safety standards and welfare ; and 

(j) to undertake such other activities as may be prescribed by the Central 
Government. 

(3) The Authority shall disseminate the necessary knowledge and information collected , 
to the respective department of the Central Government and the State Governments. 

6 . ( 1) The Authority shall prepare once every year in such form and at such time as 
may be prescribed , an Annual Report giving the summary of its activities including schemes 
it has undertaken and recommended to the Government during the previous year and it shall 
contain statements of Annual Accounts of the Authority. 

(2 ) A copy of the Annual Report shall be forwarded to the CentralGovernment, and 
the CentralGovernment shall cause the AnnualReport to be laid as soon as may be after it is 
received , before each House of Parliament. 

7 . The Central Government shall, from time to time, after due appropriation made by 
Parliament by law in this behalf, provide requisite funds for carrying out the purposes 
of this Act. 


Central 
Government to 
provide funds . 


Power to 
remove 
difficulty . 


Power to make 
rules. 


8 . If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central 
Government, in consultation with the State Governments, may make such order or give such 
direction , not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appears to it to be necessary or 
expedient for the removal of any difficulty : 

Provided that no such orders shall be made after the expiry of the period of 
three years from the date of commencement of this Act. 

9 . ( 1) The appropriate Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette ,make 
rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act by the CentralGovernment shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total 
period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive 
sessions, and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or 
both the Houses agree that the rule should not be made the rule shall thereafter have effect 
only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 

(3 ) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall be laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made , before the State Legislature . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


497 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India is being termed as the next big economic powerhouse and recently we surpassed 
China to become the fastest growing economy in the world . The challenge that we as a 
country face though is to ensure better labour market conditions to couple with this high 
growth rate. Vast majority of workers in our country still work in the informal sector. Though 
there has been a shift of workforce from agriculture to themanufacturing sector, still majority 
of the workforce are out of the social security net provided by existing legislations . 

Data shows that between 2004 -05 and 2011 - 12 , the share of workers in unorganised 
sector fell from 86 % to 82 % . At the same time though , the informalworkers in the organised 
sector (contract and other forms of casual labour) increased . These workers do not have 
access to proper social security. As of 2011 - 12 , 79 % of the non -agricultural wage workers 
had no written contract.Unemployment rates among skilled workforce is also high . Favourable 
policy needs to be put in place to capitalise on the demographic dividend of the country and 
to keep up with the changing trends in the labour market. 

This Bill aims at creating a Labour Welfare and Rehabilitation Authority , to study the 
dynamic trends in the labour market and provide for actionable schemes. The Authority 
shall formulate a scheme to give interest free loans for those unemployed upto a certain 
period until they get a job . This Authority will issue guidelines for a social security scheme 
which shall be applicable to all private and Government workers which will include a minimum 
basic income. Those who have seasonal employment will be given the same wages for the 
other months when they don t have work . The Authority will also make a study of plantation 
workers and other heavy factory workers and provide for a schemeto give hardships bonuses 
for labourers in these sectors . This will also include framing uniform safety guidelines relating 
to working conditions in these sectors. It will also be responsible for conducting labour fairs 
and also constitute labour awards sector-wise to enthuse the worker community. A body to 
rehabilitate workers from closed or sick industries will be formed by this Authority. 


The economic growth is sustainable only as long as the quality of the labour force is 
maintained . A well-nourished labour market is the fuel which drives this growth engine . 
Since , a large number ofworkers are not covered within the ambit of existing laws, this Bill 
provides for the necessary safety net. By providing for these measures, it will be the much 
needed antidote required for a faster and more inclusive growth within the country . 

Hence this Bill . 


BHAIRON PRASAD MISHRA 


NEW DELHI; 
January 18 , 2018 . 


498 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for constitution of the Labour Welfare and Rehabilitation 
Authority and also appointment of such number of officers and staff for its functioning. 
Clause 7 makes it obligatory for the Central Government to provide requisite funds for 
carrying out the purposes of this Bill. The Bill, therefore , if enacted , will involve recurring 
expenditure of three thousand crore rupees per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees one hundred crore is also likely to 
be involved. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of details only, the delegation 
of legislative power is of normal character. 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


499 


Bill No . 62 OF 2018 


A Bill to constitute a Board for promotion and protection of intangible culturalheritage 

of the country. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Promotion and Protection of Intangible Cultural Short title and 
Heritage Act, 2018 . 

commencement. 
( 2 ) It shall comeinto force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


500 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Definitions 


Constitution of 
the Alha 
Board . 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a ) " Board " means Alha Board for the promotion and protection of intangible 
cultural heritage constituted under section 3 ; 

(6 ) " intangible cultural heritage " means local based traditions, customs, 
representations and expressions including knowledge, skills and cultural heritage of 
community groups or individuals ; and 

(c ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernment shall ,by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute 
a Board to be known as the Atha Board for the promotion and protection of intangible 
cultural heritage of the country. 

( 2 ) The headquarter of the Board shall be at Mahoba district in the State of 
Uttar Pradesh . . 

(3 ) The Board shall consist of twenty - five members to be appointed by the Central 
Government in such manner as may be prescribed : 

Provided that at least one member of the Board shall be each from the State of 
Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh having experience in conservation of culturalheritage to 
be nominated by the State Government concerned : 

Provided further that at least two members of the Board shall be representatives of the 
cultural organizations. 

( 4 ) The Chairperson of the Board shall be appointed from amongst the members of 
Board through consensus. 

(5) The Board shall hold at least onemeeting every three months. 

(6 ) The salaries and allowances payable to , and the other terms and conditions of 
service of the Chairperson and the members of the Board shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 

(7) The Board may, with the approval of the Central Government, make regulations 
for regulating its own procedure . 
4 . The Board shall , — 

(i) conduct an annual survey to prepare a representative list of intangible cultural 
heritages in the country ; 

(ii) prepare written documents on local traditions and provide protection through 
the most suitable techniques; 

( iii ) recognize , conserve and promote the enriched , diverse and huge intangible 
cultural heritage of the country ; 

( iv) constitute a Coordination Committee consisting of a Chairperson and at 
least five other memebrs , representing various cultural traditions to create awareness 
towards and integration of intangible cultural heritage of the country ; and 

(v ) formulate such rules for protection and promotion of diversities of cultural 
expressions, progress of inter-cultural communications and enrichmentof inter -cultural 
activities to underline the importance of the link between culture and development. 

5 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law 
in this behalf , provide such funds to the Board as it may deem fit for effective implementation 
of the provisions of this Act. 

6 . The Central Government shall , under any provision or rule made under this Act, 
direct the Government of any State, as it deemsnecessary, for the purpose of its implementation 
in the territorial jurisdiction of the State concerned . 


Function of 
Board . 


Central 
Government to 
provide funds. 


Power to give 
directions. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


501 


7 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernment may, by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules Power to make 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

rules. 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a totalperiod of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previsously done under that rule . 


502 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Intangible culturalheritages have been existing in India since ancient times and they 
are a part of our mixed culture. Our nation has vibrant variations and ways of such heritage. 
There is a co -existence of various heritages after many adjustments due to various upheavals 
in the country . Recently , a committee on protection of intangible cultural heritage under 
UNESCO has mentioned Kumbh Mela in the representative list of intangible cultural heritage 
during their twelfth session organized in Jeju island in south - eastern of South Korea . It is a 
symbol of Indian culture which has found a place in this list ofUNESCO . Before this , in the 
year 2016 , Yoga and Parsi festival Navroj , tradition of Vedic recitation of mantras , 
Kutiyattam , Ramlila , Ramman , Kalbelia , Mundiyehu , Chhau dance , Buddhist recitation of 
religious hymns of Ladakh , community prayers (Sankirtan ) and Jandiyala were included in 
this list.Likewise , there are many intangible cultural heritages in the country such as " Nanda 
Jaat Yatra " in Uttarakhand , "Kanwal Yatra " in Northern India and " Alha " folk poem in 
Bundelkhand which are still existing through oral traditions for one thousand years and 
there is a need to protect , recognize and develop them . 

" Alha " is sung in Hindi language in various parts of the country especially in 
Bundelkhand . It is related to their history and belief . It is mainly a poem in Bundeli and 
Avadhi language. Basic verse of Alha is in Kaharwa Taal which has initially a restrained 
rhythm and it gradually increases. The vigorous feeling generated in the singer and listeners 
is remarkable . The teacher- disciple tradition is followed in Alha and it is passed on from one 
generation to another. Persons from all the communities take part in the singing of Alha and 
no discrimination is made thereto . 


It is in accordance with existing International Human Rights because all people take 
part in this equally , devoid of any discrimination . Although , various wars are mentioned in 
different folk songs of Alha yet it gives a message of patriotism , sacrifice and peace . Alha 
singing reflects that patriotism , sacrifice, tolerance and amicability which are significant for 
the contemporary world . 

Intangible cultural heritages are spread across the country which give the message of 
humanity . Special policy efforts are required to protect them so that social harmony, fraternity 
and peace can be promoted . It shall be a key to accelerate the process of making India a 
developed nation and through healthy and fruitful use of these heritages, Indian society shall 
put India on a world stage . 


Hence this Bill . 


KUNWAR PUSHPENDRA SINGH CHANDEL 


NEW DELHI; 
January 22, 2018 . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


503 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of a Board for promotion and protection 
of intangible cultural heritage in the country. It also provides for a secretariat for the purpose 
of assisting the Board and the salary and allowances of the Chairpersons, members and 
employees of the Secretariat . Clause 4 provides for conducting a survey every year, preparing 
written documents on local traditions, protection of oral traditions and publicize , conserve 
and promote intangible cultural heritage. The Bill , therefore , if enacted , will involve 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is likely to involve a recurring expenditure 
of rupees two thousand crore per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees five hundred crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 3 (7 ) of the Bill empowers the Board to make regulation for regulating its own 
procedure . Clause 7 empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out the 
purposes of the Bill. As matters in respect of which rules and regulations may be made are 
matters of administrative details and procedure , the delegation of legislative power is of a 
normal character. 


504 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Bill No. 60 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the constitution of an Infrastructure Development Board for the 

infrastructure development of the economically backward regions of the 

country particularly Bundelkhand region by way of widening of 
National Highways, construction of ring road , bypass , doubling 
of single rail track line , construction of over bridge, under 
bridge in straight structure on railway tracks, construction 
of regional air strips, construction of jetties, desilting 
and beautification thereof and for matters 

connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India 
as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1. (1 ) This Actmay be called the Special Infrastructure Development in Economically 
Backward Regions Act, 2018 . 

( 2) It extends to the whole of India . 


(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


505 


Definitions. 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " backward region " means the Bundelkhand region and such other 
economically backward regions of the country as the Central Government may, from 
time to time, declare; 

(b ) " Board " means Infrastructure Development Board constituted under 
section 3 ; 

(c) "infrastructure" includes National Highways, ring roads, bypass, railway 
tracks, railway stations, regional air strips, under bridges and over bridges; and 

(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3. (1 ) The CentralGovernment shall ,by notification in the Official Gazette , constitute 
a Board to be known as the Infrastructure Development Board for carrying out the purposes 
of this Act. 


Constitution of 
Infrastructure 
Development 
Board . 


(2 ) The headquarter of the Board shall be at Mahoba district in the State of Uttar 
Pradesh . 

(3) The Board shall consist of twenty- five members to be appointed by the Central 
Government in such manner as may be prescribed : 

Provided that at least five members of the Board shall be the Members of 
Parliament representing backward regions to be nominated by the CentralGovernment 
in such manner as may be prescribed : 


Provided further that at least one member of the Board shall be each from the 
States of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh who possesses minimum twenty years of 
experience in infrastructure development sector. 


(4 ) The Chairperson of the Board shall be appointed from amongst the members of 
Board by consensus. 

(5 ) The Board shall consist of such number of officers and employees to be appointed 
by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(6 ) The salaries and allowances payable to , and the other terms and conditions of 
service of the Chairperson, members, officers and employees of the Board shall be such as 
may be prescribed . 

( 7 ) The Board shall hold at least onemeeting every month to review its functions and 
to establish coordination between various ministries . 
4 . The Board shall, for the purposes of the development of the backward regions 

( a ) carry out annual survey of the infrastructure development work ; 
(b ) fix the priority of the development work to be undertaken ; 

(c ) carry out the widening of accident prone National Highways into four lane 
or six lane roads; 

(d ) widening of bridges over rivers and roads constructnew rail and road bridges ; 
(e ) carry out doubling of single rail track wherever required ; 
(1) carry out construction of rail under bridges and over bridges in straight shape ; 
( g) carry out construction of bypass and ring roads on National Highways; 
(h ) operate new trains; 


Functions of 
the Board . 


(i) construct and upgrade railway stations with world class facilities ; 


506 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Monitoring 
and 
assessment of 
development 
work . 


(j) desilt large ponds, provide for beautification of jetties and operate motor 
boats and sea planes; 

(k ) ensure timely repair and renovation of old structures; and 

(1) carry out other such functions as may be assigned to it , from time to time,by 
the Central Government. 

5. The Central Government shall establish a Separate Centralize Management 
Information System for monitoring development work in the backward regions including 
the records and the details of all works and the review of the progress of works being 
undertaken by the Board with the use of modern techniques like space technique in such 
manner as may be prescribed . 

6 . The CentralGovernment shall, in consultation with the Board , provide such economic 
incentives to the agency which completes the targeted works in specified time in such manner 
as may be prescribed . 

7 . The Central Government shall , after due appropriation made by Parliament by law 
in this behalf , provide requisite funds to the Board for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


Economic 
Incentives to 
the Agency . 


Central 
Government to 
provide funds. 


Power to issue 
directions. 


Power to make 
rules . 


8 . The Central Government may give such directions to the State Government, to 
implement the provisions or the 
implement the provisions or the rules made under this Actunder their jurisdiction , as itmay 
think necessary for the purpose of this Act. 

9. (1 ) The CentralGovernmentmay , by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the provisions of this Act. 

( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or 
be of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


507 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Bundelkhand is an economically backward region and the Central Government has 
been providing economic packages for its development from time to time in the absence of 
any proper action plan at the States level. This amount is wasted on account of corruption 
and unnecessary spending and this region is still backward even after the central economic 
assistance. It is the responsibility of Government to take steps for the holistic development 
of citizens . It is very essential to quickly develop various infrastructure for the development 
of backward regions of the country including Bundelkhand . There is lack of regional 
connectivity through road , rail and air route in Bundelkhand and the present system is not 
very convenient also . 

Accidents are very common in those narrow National Highways which causes loss of 
life and property. This can be solved by widening the double lane highways. Traffic jamscan 
be avoided in their cities and towns by constructing ring road , bypass and also over bridges 
and under bridges roads and rail lines, respectively. There are various such points on rivers 
where one needs to cover a long distance to cross the rivers to reach the side in this region . 
It can be solved by constructing bridges on such points of the river which would cut down 
the travel time. Distance by train can become less cumbersome if new trains are operated 
and doubling of single railway tracks is completed . More amenities can be provided to rail 
passengers by providing world class level facilities at existing railway stations. 

There are several areas in economically backward regions, in particular Bundelkhand 
which are naturally very scenic. Regional air facility may be augmented by establishing air 
connectivity which would increase the accessibility in these areas. There are many big ponds 
and water bodies which need repair and beautification so that tourism may be promoted in 
these areas. Construction of jetties around ponds and motor boats and sea planes service in 
these ponds may also generate more and more employment avenues. 

There are several areas in Bundelkhand which are economically backward and needs 
improvement in infrastructure. Development of the backward regions is very crucial for the 
development of the country and Bundelkhand region has to play a special role in it. 

The Bill, therefore, seeks to provide for the constitution of an Infrastructure 
Development Board for the infrastructure developmentof the economically backward regions 
of the country including Bundelkhand including the widening of National Highways , 
construction of ring road , bypass, doubling of single rail track line , construction of over 
bridge, under bridge in straight structure on railway tracks, construction of regional air strips, 
construction of jetties, desilting and beautification thereof to ensure accelerated development 
of the Bundelkhand region . 

Hence this Bill . 


KUNWAR PUSHPENDRA SINGH CHANDEL 


NEW DELHI; 
January 22 , 2018 . 


508 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of a Infrastructure Development 
Board . It also provides for appointment of Chairperson , members , officers and employees 
to the Board . Clause 5 provides for establishment of a Centralized Management Information 
System for monitoring and assessmentof development works of the Board . Clause 6 provides 
for the economic incentives to the agencies which completes the targeted works in specified 
time. Clause 7 provides that the Central Government shall provide requisities funds to the 
Board for carrying out the purposes of this Act. The Bill, therefore, if enacted , will involve 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees five 
thousand crore would involve as recurring expenditure per annum from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees fivehundred crore is also likely to be incurred . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 

Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is , therefore, of a normal character . 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 
THE GAZETTE 


509 


Bill No . 71 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for payment of remunerative price to betel growers, insurance ofbetel 
crop free of cost, comprehensive welfare of betel growers and setting up of betel research 

centre and for matters connected therewith . 
Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: — 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Betel Growers (Remunerative Price and Welfare) Short title , 
Act , 2018 . 

(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


extent and 
commence 
ment. 


510 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Definitions. 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) " betel" means the leaf of a plant grown in South and South East Asia and 
chewed as mild stimulant; 


Betel Research 
Centre. 


Procurement of 
betel crop . 


Fixation of 
remunerative 
price of betel. 


(b ) " betel grower " means a person who cultivates betel; 
(c ) " Centre " means Betel Research Centre established under section 3 ; 
(d )" Fund" means BetelGrowers Welfare Fund constituted under section 7; and 

(e ) " prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act . 
3 . ( 1) The Central Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette , establish 
a Centre to be known as Betel Research Centre to study , research and suggest measures to 
increase the productivity and quality of betel farming in the country. 

( 2 ) The headquarters of the Centre shall be at Mahoba district in the State of 
Uttar Pradesh and the Centre may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, 
establish branches of the Centre in different parts of the country . 

(3) The Centre shall consist of such number of experts , officers and employees to be 
appointed by the Central Government in such manner asmay be prescribed . 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of experts , 
officers and employees of the Centre shall be such as may be prescribed . 

(5) The Centre shall be operated by such rules as may be prescribed . 

4 . The Central Government shall procure the entire betel crop from the betel growers 
in the country through such agency and in such manner as may be prescribed . 

5 . The Central Government shall after considering the following, determine the 
remunerative price of betel every year 

(a ) expenditure on construction of structures including bajra , mandap for betel 
farming ; 

(b ) increase in the price of pesticides, fertilisers and other inputs ; 
(c) total investment of betel growers; and 

(d ) such other factors as may be prescribed . 
6 . The entire betel produced by the betel growers shall be compulsorily insured free of 
cost by the Central Government against natural calamities, fall in the productivity of betel, 
fall in the price of betel and such other eventualities as may be prescribed . 

7 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall constitute a fund to be known as the BetelGrowers 
Welfare Fund for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

( 2 ) The Central Government and the State Government shall contribute to the Fund in 
such ratio as may be prescribed . 
8. The Fund shall be used for the following purposes , namely: 

(a ) to provide financial assistance to betel growers for the expenditure on 
construction of structures like bajra ,mandap for the betel farming, loss to crop due to 
pesticides, fertilisers , storm , excessive rain , hailstorming, flood , drought or in condition 
of loss of productivity of betel; 

(b ) for the payment of compensation to the next kin of betel growers in the event 
of their death ; 

(c) to provide free medical services to betel growers and their families ; 
(d ) to provide assistance to betel growers in the event of disability ; and 
( e ) for such other purposes as may be prescribed . 


Insurance . 


Betel Growers 
Welfare Fund . 


Utilisation of 
Fund . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


511 


9 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules Power to make 

rules. 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made 
before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two ormore successive sessions and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or successive sessions aforesaid 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the case may be ; so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


512 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Agriculture is the main source of income in the Bundelkhand region of the country . 
Since many decades , condition of agriculture economy is fragile in Bundelkhand region due 
to climate change and people are forced to migrate from this region due to unavailability of 
other employment alternative . There is a need to upgrade the agricultural technology , 
agriculture infrastructure development, investment, easy loan availability and simple 
agriculture insurance scheme in Bundelkhand . With the continuous and integrated efforts , 
the condition of agriculture may be improved in Bundelkhand . 

Betel farming is being done in the Mahoba district of Bundelkhand region and also in 
various parts of the country since ancient times .Mahoba betel is famous in the world . Betel 
farming in fully controlled manner is very expensive but it creates employment opportunities 
at very large scale . In Mahoba, betel farming is done in a co -operative manner which is done 
by five to ten families collectively and surprisingly , this is very successful in this region 
since long time. The structures like bajra and mandap are constructed to control the 
humidity and temperature for betel farming . They are rare examples of scientific and technical 
application of Indian traditional agriculture which has been used since 2000 years and 
probably this is themost revolutionary application in India after the use of iron in agriculture . 

However , betel ,which has religious, cultural,medicinal and economic significance, is 
fighting for its existence today, particularly in Bundelkhand region . On one hand , new 
research is required for protection of betel farming, on the other hand , special provisions are 
very much necessary for the welfare of betel growers. 

This Bill, therefore , seeks to provide for improvement in betel production methods 
through new research and special provisions for the welfare of betel growers. 

Hence this Bill. 


KUNWAR PUSHPENDRA SINGH CHANDEL 


NEW DELHI; 
January 22 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


513 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for establishment of Research Centre to study, research 
and suggest measures to increase the productivity and quality of betel farming . Clause 4 
provides for procurement of betel from betel growers by an agency to be set up by the 
Central Government and fixation of remunerative prices for betel by the CentralGovernment. 
Clause 6 provides for compulsory free insurance by the CentralGovernment of betel against 
natural calamities. Clause 7 provides for constitution of a Betel Growers Welfare Fund to 
which the Central Government and the State Governments shall contribute. Clause 8 
provides for contribution of the CentralGovernment and the State Government to the Betel 
Growers Welfare Fund . 


The Bill, therefore, if enacted , would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund 
of India . It is estimated that a recurring expenditure of about rupees five hundred crore will 
be involved per annum . 

A non -recurring annual expenditure of about rupees fifty crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


514 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Bill No . 136 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the AncientMonuments Preservation Act, 1904 . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Ancient Monuments Preservation (Amendment ) 
Act, 2018 . 


Short title and 
commencement. 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 

2. After section 20C of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904, the following 
sections shall be inserted , namely : 


Insertion of 
new sections 
20D and 20E . 


Prohibition of 
transfer of 
ancient 
monuments by 
the 
Governments . 


“ 20D . Notwithstanding anything in this Act, no ancientmonument held , owned 
or acquired by the Central Government or a State Government shall be transferred by 
way of lease , sale or otherwise by that Government. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


515 


20E . The Central Government or a State Government, as the case may be , in Government to 
whose possession an ancient monument is , shall be solely responsible for the 

be solely 

responsible for 
maintenance , upkeep , improvement of profitability and development as tourist place 

maintenance of 
of such ancientmonuments.” . 

ancient 
monuments . 


516 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The ancientmonuments being part of our rich heritage and wealth of nation have to be 
preserved to uphold the nation s great traditions and history. The Ancient Monuments 
Preservation Act, 1904 provides for the acquisition and maintenance of such properties that 
come under the description of ancient monuments. However, the Central and State 
Governments are , of late , transferring by way of sale , lease or otherwise , properties which 
are ancientmonuments and heritage sites of our country . Such transfers need to be prevented . 

The Bill , therefore , seeks to amend the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 
with a view to : 


(a ) prohibit transfer of ancientmonuments by the Central or State Governmentby way 

of lease , sale or otherwise ; and 
(b ) make the Central Government and the State Governments to be solely responsible 

for the maintenance of ancient monuments . 


Hence this Bill . 


MULLAPPALLY RAMACHANDRAN 


NEW DELHI; 
July 4 , 2018 . 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 
THE GAZETTE 


517 


Bill No. 134 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. ( 1) This Act may be called as the Prevention of Food Adulteration ( Amendment) Short title and 
Act, 2018 

commencement. 
( 2) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

2 . In section 2 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration (Amendment) Act, 1954 Amendment of 
(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), - 

section 2 . 


37 of 1954 . 


(a ) after clause ( iii ), the following clauses shall be inserted , namely : 


" (iiia ) consumables means any article meant for human consumption as 
food or drink and shall include raw and cooked fish ,meats , vegetables, fruits , 


518 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


poultry and dairy products , bottled water, soft drinks, grains, pulses , cooking 
oils, spices , dry fruits and sauces; 

(iiib ) " contaminated " — an article of food shall be deemed to be 
contaminated 


(a ) if there is any addition or use of any contaminating substance in 
any article of food or in the packing of such article of food ; 

(b ) if harmful chemicals , preservatives, acids, paints , polish or wax 
have been used in any article of food which are not permitted in the use of 
such article of food ; and 


(c ) if formalin , wax , ammonia or any dangerous chemical or 
substance is used for the preservation of food ." ; 
(b ) for clause ( v), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 

(v ) " food"means any article used as food or drink for human consumption 
other than drugs and includes any substance consumed by human beings as food 
and shall include cooked and uncooked food, milk and milk products , dairy 
produce , meats of all variety, fish of all variety, vegetables of all variety , fruits 
of all variety , grains and pulses of all variety , packed drinks including drinking 
water; ; and 
(c ) after clause ( vi ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( via ) harmful chemicals include formalin , ammonia and other chemicals 
and insecticides, pesticides and preservatives, the presence of which in food 
causes or is likely to cause harm to the consumer ." . 


Amendment of 
section 5 . 


3. In section 5 of the principal Act, after clause (i), the following clause shall be 
inserted , namely : 

" (ia ) any contaminated food;". 
4. After section 5 ofthe principal Act , the following section shall be inserted , namely : 


Insertion of 
new section 
5A . 


" 5A . No person shall export from India any adulterated or contaminated food.". 


Prohibition of 
export of 
contaminated 
food . 
Amendment of 
section 7 . 


Amendment of 
section 16 . 


5. In section 7 of the principal Act, after clause (i), the following clause shall be 
inserted , namely : 

" ( ia ) any contaminated food ;" . 
6 . In section 16 of the principal Act , the existing sub - section ( 1AA ) shall be 
renumbered as sub - section (1AB ) and before the sub -section (1AB ) so as renumbered , the 
following sub - section shall be inserted , namely : 

" ( 1AA )Any person who, whetherby himself orby any other person on his behalf, 
export from India or manufactures for sale or stores, sells or distributes any 
contaminated food shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not 
be less than six months but which may extend to two years and with fine which shall 
not be less than rupees one lakh : 

Provided that if the contaminated food , consumed by any person is likely to 
cause his death or is likely to cause such harm on his body as would amount to grievous 
hurt within the meaning of section 320 of the Indian Penal Code ( 45 of 1860), he shall 
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but 
which may extend to term of life and with fine which shall not be less than rupees two 


lakh ;" . 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


519 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Pollution , contamination and adulteration in foods for human consumption is on the 
rise , deeply affecting the health and lives of the persons at large . It is not only the 
adulteration of foodstuffs that is dangerous to human health but more so it is the 
contamination of food by use of extremely dangerous chemical substances that is more 
harmful to health and is mostly fatal. Unfortunately in today s commercial life we find people 
knowingly or unknowingly indulging in poisoning food by the use of substances like 
formalin and ammonia to preserve fish and meats and also dangerous levels of insecticides 
and pesticides and even artificial ripening agents and colours on fruits and vegetables. It is 
pertinent to note that huge consignments of our traditional fruits like mangoes and large 
wealth of fish are being rejected by foreign purchasers because of the presence of these 
dangerous chemicals. 


We cannot expose our country s reputation in the international market or our own 
nation s consumers to the dangers of these substances . Experts opined that consumption of 
these substances cause incurable and fatal diseases. If left unfettered , this will cause a health 
emergency in the country. The use of such substances tantamount to homicide — not of 
individuals — but of whole community. It is essential to bring stringent law to prohibit the 
use of such substances or consumables and to inflict deterrent punishment for such use. 

The Bill, therefore, seeks to amend the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 
with a view to prohibit export from India or manfucature for sale or store , sell or distribution 
of any contaminated food and to provide for punishment thereto . 

Hence this Bill. 


MULLAPPALLY RAMACHANDRAN 


NEW DELHI; 
June 29 , 2017 . 


520 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Bill No . 46 OF 2018 


A Bill to establish and incorporate a Central Sanskrit University at Mahoba in the 
State of Uttar Pradesh to promote Sanskrit language, literature, research in old 
Sanskrit manuscripts and its use in different subjects like computer, science , 
mathematics and social sciences with inter -disciplinary approach and 

for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows : 


Short title and 
commencement. 


1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Central Sanskrit University Act, 2018 . 


(2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by 
notification in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


521 


2 . In this Act, and in all Statutes made hereunder, unless the context otherwise Definitions. 
requires, 


(a ) " Academic Council " means the Academic Council of the University ; 


(b ) " academic staff " means such categories of staff as are designated as 
academic staff by the Ordinances ; 


( c ), " Board of Studies " means the Board of Studies of a Department of the 
University ; 

(d ) " Chancellor" , " Vice - Chancellor" , and " Pro - Vice - Chancellor " mean , 
respectively , the Chancellor, Vice -Chancellor and Pro - Vice - Chancellor of the 
University ; 

(e ) " College" means a college maintained by the University ; 
(f) "Court " means the Court of the University ; 

(8 ) " Department" means a Department of Studies and includes a Centre of 
Studies ; 

(h ) " distance education system " means the system of imparting education 
through any means of communication , such as broadcasting, telecasting, 
webcasting, correspondence courses, seminars , contact programmes or the 
combination of any two or more such means; 

(i) " employee " means any person appointed by the University and includes 
teachers and other staff of the University ; 

(j) " Executive Council" means the Executive Council of the University ; 
(k) " Faculty " means a Faculty of the University ; 
( 1) " Finance Committee " means Finance Committee of the University ; 

(m ) " Institution " means an academic institution , not being a college , 
maintained by , or admitted to the privileges of, the University ; 

(n ) " Regulations" means the Regulations made by any authority of the 
University under this Act for the time being in force ; 

(0 ) " Statutes " and " Ordinances" mean , respectively, the Statutes and the 
Ordinances of the University, for the time being in force; 

(p ) " teachers of the University " mean Professors, Associate Professors, 
Assistant Professors and such other persons as may be appointed for imparting 
instruction or conducting research in the University ; and 

(9) "University " means the CentralSanskrit University as incorporated under 
this Act. 

3 . ( 1) There shall be established , in the State of Uttar Pradesh a Central Sanskrit 
University . 

(2 ) The headquarter of the University shall be at Mahoba in the State of 
Uttar Pradesh . 


Establishment 
of University . 


( 3 ) The first Chancellor, the first Vice -Chancellor and the first members of the 
Court, the Executive Council and the Academic Council, and all persons who may 
hereafter become such officers or members, so long as they continue to hold such office 
ormembership , are hereby constituted a body corporate by the name of the University. 

(4 ) The University shall have perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall 
sue and be sued by the said name. 


522 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Objects of 
University . 


Powers of 
University. 


4 . The objects of the University shall be to promote Sanskrit language, literature , 
research in old Sanskrit manuscripts and its use in different subjects like computer , 
science, mathematics and social sciences with inter -disciplinary approach . 
5 . (1) The University shall have the following powers,namely: 

(i) to provide for instructions in Sanskrit language and literature as the 
University may, from time to time, determine and to make provisions for research 
and for the advancement and dissemination of knowledge for furtherance of the 
objects of the University ; 

(ii) to grant, subject to such conditions as the University may determine, 
diplomas or certificates to , and confer degrees or other academic distinctions on 
the basis of examinations, evaluation or any other method of testing, on persons , 
and to withdraw any such diplomas, certificates , degrees or other academic 
distinctions for good and sufficient cause in themanner prescribed by the Statutes ; 

(iii ) to organise conferences, seminars on Sanskrit language and literature ; 

(iv ) to organise and to undertake extra -mural studies, training and extension 
services; 


( v ) to confer honorary degrees or other distinctions in the manner prescribed 
by the Statutes; 

(vi) to provide facilities through the distance education system as it may 
determine; 

( vii ) to institute Principalships, Professorships, Associate Professorships , 
Assistant Professorships and other teaching or academic positions , required by 
the University and to appoint persons to such Principalships , Professorships , 
Associate Professorships , Assistant Professorships or other teaching or academic 
positions ; 

(viii) to recognise an institution of higher learning for such purposes as the 
University may determine and to withdraw such recognition in the manner 
prescribed by the Statutes; 

(ix ) to appoint persons working in any other University or educational 
institution , including those located outside the country , as teachers of the 
University for a specified period ; 

( x ) to create administrative , Ministerial and other posts and to make 
appointments thereto ; 


(xi) to co -operate or collaborate or associate with any other University or 
authority or institution of higher learning , including those located outside the 
country , in such manner and for such purposes as the University may determine; 

( xii ) to collaborate with any other college or university, research institution , 
industry association , professional or any other organisation , in India or outside 
India to conceptualise , design and develop specific programmes as part of 
education and research , training programmes and exchange programmes for 
students, academic staff and others ; 

( xiii ) to institute and award fellowships, scholarships, studentships, medals 
and prizes; 

(xiv ) to establish and maintain Colleges and Institutions ; 


(xv ) to make provision for research and advisory services and for that 
purpose to enter into such arrangements with other institutions, industrial or other 
organisations, as the University may deem necessary ; 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


523 


( xvi) to organise and conduct refresher courses, workshops , seminars and 
other programmes for teachers, evaluators and other academic staff; 

(xvii ) to appoint on contract or otherwise visiting Professors, Emeritus 
Professors , Consultants , Scholars and such other persons who may contribute to 
the advancement of the objects of the University ; 


( xviii ) to confer autonomous status on a College or an Institution or a 
Department, as the case may be, in accordance with the Statutes; 


( xix ) to determine standards of admission to the University , which may 
include examination , evaluation or any other method of testing; 


( xx ) to demand and receive payment of fees and other charges ; 

( xxi) to establish and maintain a health care centre for the benefit of the 
students and employees ; 

(xxii ) to make arrangements for promoting the health and general welfare 
of the employees; 

( xxiii ) to supervise the residences of the students of the University and to 
make arrangements for promoting their health and general welfare ; 

(xxiv) to lay down conditions of service of all categories of employees, 
including their Code of conduct; 

(xxv) to regulate and enforce discipline among the students and the 
employees , and to take such disciplinary measures in this regard as may be deemed 
by the University to be necessary ; 

(xxvi) to receive benefactions , donations and gifts and to acquire, hold and 
manage , and to dispose of , without the previous approval of the Central 
Government, any property, movable or immovable , including trust and endowment 
properties for the purposes of the University ; 

( xxvii ) to borrow , without the approval of the Central Government, on the 
security of the property of the University, money for the purposes of the University ; 

(xxviii) to do all such other acts and things as may be necessary , incidental 
or conducive to the attainment of all or any of its objects . 

( 2 ) In exercising its powers referred to in sub -section ( 1), it shall be the endeavour 
of the University to maintain an all - India character and high standards of teaching and 
research , and the University shall, among other measures which may be necessary for 
the said purpose and take , in particular, the following measures, namely: 

(i) admission of students and recruitment of Faculty shall be made on all 
India basis ; 

( ii ) admissions of students shall bemade on merit , either through Entrance 
Tests conducted by the University or in combination with other Universities , or 
on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examinations ; 

(iii ) encourage inter -University mobility of Faculty ; 

(iv) introduce semester system , continuous evaluation and choice based 
credit system and enter into agreements with other Universities and academic 
institutions for credit transfer and joint degree programmes ; 

(v) introduce innovative courses and programmes of studies with provision 
for periodic review and restructuring ; 

(vi) ensure active participation of students in all academic activities of the 
University , including evaluation of teachers ; 


524 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


( vii) obtain mandatory accreditation from National Assessment and 
Accreditation Council or any other statutory accrediting agency ; and 


( viii) introduce e -governance with an effective management information 
system . 


Jurisdiction . 


6 . The jurisdiction of the University shall extend to the whole of India. 

7 . The University shall be open to all persons irrespective of caste , creed , race or 
class . 


University 
Open to all 
Classes, 
Castes and 
Creeds. 


Visitor . 


Officers of 
University. 


Chancellor 


8. (1) The President of India shall be the Visitor of the University. 
( 2) The Visitor shall have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Statutes. 
9 . The following shall be the officers of the University: 

(1) the Chancellor; 
(2 ) the Vice -Chancellor ; 
( 3 ) the Pro - Vice - Chancellor ; 
(4 ) the Deans of Faculties; 
(5 ) the Registrar; 
(6 ) the Finance Officer; 
( 7 ) the Controller of Examinations ; 
(8) the Librarian ; and 

(9 ) such other officers as may be declared by the Statutes to be officers of 
the University . 

10 . (1) The Chancellor shall be appointed by the Visitor in such manner as may 
be prescribed by the Statutes . 

(2 ) The Chancellor shall, by virtue of his office , be the head of the University and 
shall, if present, preside at the Convocations of the University held for conferring degrees 
and meetings of the Court. 

11. (1 ) The Vice - Chancellor shall be appointed by the Visitor in such manner as 
may be prescribed by the Statutes. 

(2 ) The Vice- Chancellor shall be the principal executive and academic officer of 
the University and shall exercise general supervision and control over the affairs of the 
University and give effect to the decisions of all the authorities of the University . 

(3 ) The Vice - Chancellor shall exercise such other powers and perform such other 
duties as may be prescribed by the Statutes or the Ordinances. 

12 . The Pro - Vice - Chancellor shallbe appointed in such manner and on such terms 
and conditions of service , and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties, as 
may be prescribed by the Statutes . 

13. Every Dean of School shall be appointed in such manner and shall exercise 
such powers and perform such duties , as may be prescribed by the Statutes. 

14 . (1 ) The Registrar shall be appointed in such manner and on such terms and 
conditions of service as may be prescribed by the Statutes. 

(2 ) The Registrar shall have the power to enter into agreements, sign documents 
and authenticate records on behalf of the University and shall exercise such powers 
and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Statutes . 


Vice 
Chancellor 


Pro - Vice 
Chancellor. 


Deans of 
Schools. 


Registrar. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


525 


15 . The Finance Officer shall be appointed in such manner and shall exercise Finance 
such powers and perform such duties, as may be prescribed by the Statutes . 

Officer. 
16 . The Controller of Examinations shall be appointed in such manner and shall Controller of 

Examinations. 
exercise such powers and perform such duties , as may be prescribed by the Statutes. 

17 . The Librarian shall be appointed in such manner and on such terms and Librarian . 
conditions of service , and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties, as may 
be prescribed by the Statutes. 

18 . The manner of appointment and powers and duties of other officers of the Other Officers. 
University shall be prescribed by the Statutes . 
19 . The following shall be the authorities of the University : 

Authorities of 

University . 
( 1) the Court; 
( 2) the Executive Council ; 
(3 ) the Academic Council; 
( 4 ) the Board of Studies and Academic Boards ; 
(5 ) the Finance Committee ; and 

(6 ) such other authorities as may be declared by the Statutes to be the 
authorities of the University . 

20 . (1) The constitution of the Court and the term of office of its members shall Court . 
be prescribed by the Statutes. 

(2 ) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Court shall have the following powers 
and sanctions, namely: 

( a ) to review , from time to time, the broad policies and programmes of the 
University and to suggest measures for the improvement and development of the 
University ; and 

(b ) to perform such other functions as may be prescribed by the Statutes . 
21. (1 ) The Executive Council shall be the principal executive body of the University. Executive 

Council. 


(2 ) The constitution of the Executive Council, the term of office of its members 
and its powers and functions shall be prescribed by the Statutes : 

Provided that the Executive Council shall have adequate number of members 
from among the women : 

Provided further that such number ofmembers asmay be prescribed by the Statutes 
shall be from among the elected members of the Court. 

22 . ( 1) The Academic Council shall be the principal academic body of the Academic 
University and shall , subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes and the 
Ordinances, coordinate and exercise general supervision over the academic policies of 
the University 

(2 ) The constitution of the Academic Council , the term of office of its members 
and its powers and functions shall be prescribed by the Statutes: 


Council 


Provided that the Academic Council shall have such number of members as may 
be prescribed by the Statutes shall be from among the elected members of the Court . 

23 . The constitution , powers and functions of the Board of Studies shall be Board of 
prescribed by the Statutes. 

Studies and the 
Academic 

Boards. 
24 . The constitution , powers and functions of the Finance Committee shall be Finance 
prescribed by the Statutes. 

Committee. 


526 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Other 
Authorit 

rities of 
the University . 


Power to make 
Statutes. 


25 . The Constitution , powers and functions of other authorities, as may be declared 
by the Statutes to be the authorities of the University , shall be prescribed by the 
Statutes . 

26 . Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Statutes may provide for all or any of 
the followingmatters , namely : 

(a ) the constitution , powers and functions of authorities and other bodies 
of the University , as may be constituted , from time to time; 


(b ) the appointment and continuance in office of the members of the said 
authorities and bodies , the filling up of vacancies of members, and all other matters 
relating to those authorities and other bodies for which it may be necessary or 
desirable to provide ; 

( c ) the withdrawal of degrees , diplomas , certificates and other academic 
distinctions ; and 


Power to make 
Ordinances. 


(d ) all other matters which by this Act are to be or may be provided for by 
the Statutes . 

27 . ( 1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Statutes, the Ordinances may 
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: 

(a ) the admission of students to the University and their enrolment as such ; 

(b ) the courses of study to be laid down for all degrees, diplomas and 
certificates of the University ; 

( c ) the establishment of Centres of Studies , Boards of Studies and other 
Committees; and 


( d ) all other matters which by this Act or the Statutes , are to be or may be , 
provided for by the Ordinances. 

( 2) The first Ordinances shall be made by the Vice - Chancellor with the previous 
approval of the Central Government and the Ordinances so made may be amended , 
repealed or added to at any time by the Executive Council in themanner prescribed by 
the Statutes. 


Regulations . 


Annual Report. 


28 . The authorities of the University may make Regulations, consistent with this 
Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances for the conduct of their own business and that of 
the Committees, if any , appointed by them and not provided for by this Act, the Statutes 
or the Ordinances , in the manner prescribed by the Statutes. 

29 . (1) The annual report of the University shall be prepared under the direction 
of the Executive Council , which shall include , among other matters , the steps taken by 
the University towards the fulfillment of its objects and shall be submitted to the Court 
on or before such date as may be prescribed by the Central Government and the Court 
shall consider the report in its annual meeting . 

(2 ) The Court shall submit the annual report to the Visitor along with its comments , 
if any. 


( 3 ) A copy of the annual report, as prepared under sub -section ( 1 ), shall also be 
submitted to the Central Government, and that Government which shall , as soon as 
may be after it is submitted , cause the same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament . 


Annual 
Account. 


30 . ( 1) The annual accounts and balance sheet of theUniversity shall be prepared 
under the directions of the Executive Council and shall , once at least every year and at 
intervals of not more than fifteen months, be audited by the Comptroller and 
Auditor -General of India or by such persons as he may authorise on his behalf . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


527 


(2 ) A copy of the annual accounts together with the audit report thereon shall be 
submitted to the Court and the Visitor along with the observations of the Executive 
Council. 


( 3 ) A copy of the annual accounts together with the audit report as submitted to 
the Visitor, shall also be submitted to the Central Government, which shall, as soon as 
may be, cause the same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 


31. The University shall furnish to the Central Government such returns or other Returns and 
information with respect to its property or activities as the Central Government may , Information . 
from time to time, require . 

32 . ( 1) Every employee of the University shall be appointed under a written Condition of 
contract, which shall be lodged with the University and a copy of which shall be furnished Service of 

Employees. 
to the employee concerned . 

(2 ) Any dispute arising out of the contract between the University and any 
employee shall , at the request of the employee, be referred to a Tribunal of Arbitration 
consisting of one member appointed by the Executive Council, one member nominated 
by the employee concerned and an umpire appointed by the Visitor. 

33. Every employee or student of the University or of a College or Institution Right to 
maintained by the University shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act , Appeal 
have a right to appeal within such time as may be prescribed by the Statutes , to the 
Executive Council against the decision of any officer or authority of the University or 
of the Principal or the management of any College or an Institution , as the case may be , 
and thereupon the Executive Council may confirm , modify or reverse the decision 
appealed against. 

34 . All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex officio members ) of Filling of 
any authority or other body of the University shall be filled , as soon as may be, by the casual 

vacancies . 
person or body who appoints , elects or co - opts the member whose place has become 
vacant and the person appointed , elected or co - opted to a casual vacancy shall be a 
member of such authority or body for the residue of the term for which the person 
whose place he fills would have been a member. 

35. The Executive Council may appoint a person of high academic distinction Special Mode 
and professional attainments to accept a post of Professor or Associate Professor or of 
any other equivalent academic post in the University on such termsand conditions as it Appoin 
deems fit : 

Provided that the Executive Council may also create supernumerary posts for a 
specified period for appointment of such persons. 

36 . (1) An authority of the University may appoint as many standing or special Committee. 
Committees as it may deem fit , and may appoint to such Committees persons who are 
notmembers of such authority. 

(2) A Committee appointed under clause (1) may deal with any subject delegated 
to it subject to subsequent confirmation by the authority appointing it . 

37. The Executive Councilmay, on the recommendation of the Academic Council Honorary 
and by a resolution passed by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members degrees . 
present and voting , make proposals to the Visitor for the conferment of honorary degrees : 

Provided that in case of emergency, the Executive Council may, on its own motion , 
make such proposals . 

38 . Convocations of the University for the conferring of degrees shall be held in Convocations. 
such manner as may be prescribed by the Ordinances. 


tment. 


528 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II — 


Alumni 
Association . 


39. There shall be an Alumni Association for the University . 


Student s 
Council. 


40 . There shall be constituted in the University , a Student s Council for every 
academic year, consisting of 

(i) the Dean of Students Welfare who shall be Chairperson of the Student 
Council; 

(ii) twenty -five students to be nominated by the Academic Council on the 
basis of merit in studies , sports and extra -curricular activities ; and 

(iii ) twenty -five elected representatives of students in themanner prescribed 
by the Ordinances. 


Delegation of 
powers . 


Protection of 
action taken in 
good faith . 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


41 . Subject to the provisions of the Act and the Statutes , any officer or authority 
of the University may delegate his or its powers to any other officer or authority or 
person under his or its respective control and subject to the condition that overall 
responsibility for the exercise of the powers so delegated shall continue to vest in the 
officer or authority delegating such powers. 

42. No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against any officer or other employee 
of the University for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in 
pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act , the Statutes or the Ordinances . 

43 . ( 1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the 
Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette , make such 
provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary 
or expedient for removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of 
three years from the commencement of this Act. 

(2 ) Every order made under sub - section (1 ) shall be laid , as soon as may be after 
it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session , for a total period of 
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , 
and if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the 
successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the 
order or both Houses agree that the order should not bemade, the order shall thereafter 
have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect as the case may be; so , however, 
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of 
anything previously done under that order. 

44 . ( 1) Every Statute , Ordinance or Regulation made under this Act shall be 
published in the Official Gazette . 

(2 ) Every Statute , Ordinance or Regulation made under this Act shall be laid , as 
soon as may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , 
for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or 
more successive sessions , and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following 
the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any 
modification in the Statute , Ordinance or Regulation or both Houses agree that the 
Statute , Ordinance or Regulation should not be made , the Statute , Ordinance or 
Regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as 
the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shallbe without 
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that Statute , Ordinance or 
Regulation . 

( 3 ) The power to make Statutes, Ordinances or Regulations shall include the power 
to give retrospective effect, from a date not earlier than the date of commencement of 
this Act, to the Statutes, Ordinances or Regulations or any of them but no retrospective 
effect shall be given to any Statute, Ordinance or Regulation so as to prejudicially 


Statutes , 
Ordinances 
and 
Regulations to 

shed in 
the Official 
Gazette and to 
be laid before 
Parliament. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


529 


Transitional 
provisions. 


affect the interests of any person to whom such Statute, Ordinance or Regulation may 
be applicable . 
45 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the Statutes, 

( a ) the first Chancellor and first Vice - Chancellor shall be appointed by the 
Visitor in such manner and on such conditions as may be deemed fit and each of 
the said officer shall hold office for such term , not exceeding five years as may 
be specified by the Visitor ; 

(b ) the first Registrar and the first Finance Officer shall be appointed by the 
Visitor and each of the said officers shall hold office for a term of three years ; 


(c ) the first Court and the first Executive Council shall consist of notmore 
than thirty One members and eleven members, respectively , who shall be 
nominated by the Central Government and shall hold office for a term of three 
years; and 


(d ) the first Academic Council shall consist of not more than twenty - one 
members, who shall be nominated by the CentralGovernment and they shall hold 
office for a term of three years : 

Provided that if any vacancy occurs in the above offices or authorities, the 
same shall be filled by appointment or nomination , as the case may be in the 
manner prescribed by the Statutes. 


530 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


" BTR 46946R FEhigpaa greu i qof TGHRGİ TAHRC 41 afa " means in the 
north side of sea and south of Himalaya there is a sacred land known as " Bharat Varsh " 
and their generations are called as " Bhartiya ". This Shaloka is taken from " Vishnu 
Puran " which describes physical boundary of India (Bharat Varsh ). The first and authentic 
description of Indian boundaries is available only in old Sanskrit literature. No one can 
imagine India without Sanskrit. But despite ofmany institutions of Sanskrit in country , 
at present condition of Sanskrit language is dismal and notknown to be a language of 
common man . 

Sanskrit is not only mother of different Indian languages but also of some foreign 
languages . It is important to highlight here that relation between Sanskrit language and 
Indian scheduled and non -scheduled languages are symbiotic in nature and as a result , 
development of Sanskrit means development of other languages also . Sanskrit literature 
Ved . Brahman , Aranyak, Upanishad , Paran , Bhaishya , etc . are source of fundamental 
and behavioural knowledge of different fields like science and human life. So for fast 
development of India , common people should have basic understanding about Sanskrit. 

The great scientists of modern era like Schopenhauer, Niels Bohr, Einstein , etc . 
all have studied Upanishads. Utilitarian thoughts for social system like " Satyamev Jayate 
( yha ged )" ," Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam (aeta ostal64 )" etc . are taken from ancient 
books and were written in Sanskrit only. 

These ancients scriptures are source of great knowledge and with following the 
morals contained therein . India can become world leader in near future . But for this 
there should be basic understanding of Sanskrit amongst common people . This is only 
possible when there shall be use of Sanskrit language in research and development of 
computer science , traditional science , mathematics and different social sciences and 
imparting of compulsory education of Sanskrit in all level and kind of education 
institutes. 


To promote teaching of Sanskrit and its use into modern science and technology 
establishment of Central Sanskrit University is inevitable . 


Hence this Bill . 


KUNWAR PUSHPENDRA SINGH CHANDEL 


New Delhi; 
January 30 , 2018. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


531 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill seeks to establish a Central Sanskrit University as a body 
corporate to at Mahoba in the State of Uttar Pradesh to promote Sanskrit language , 
literature , research in old Sanskrit manuscripts and its use in different subjects like 
computer science , mathematics and social sciences with inter - disciplinary approach . 
After enactment of the Bill , the Vice Chancellor will be appointed , who will prepare 
the Vision Document and the Draft Project Report under the guidance of the statutory 
authorities of the University. The actual financial requirements of the University will 
be worked out on the basis of the Draft Project Report . It is expected that the proposed 
University would require about rupees one thousand crore during the next Plan period . 
The expenditure would be met from the Consolidated Fund of India through the 
University Grants Commission under the budgetary provisions of the Ministry of Human 
Resource Development . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 

1 . Sub -Clause (2 ) of clause 27 of the Bill empowers the Vice -Chancellor to make 
the first Ordinances of the University with the previous approval of the Central 
Government and provides that the Ordinances so made may be amended , repealed or 
added to at any timeby the Executive Council in the manner prescribed by the Statutes . 
The matters in respect of which Ordinances may be made, or as the case may be , 
amended , repealed or added to , relate to admission of students, courses of study ,medium 
of instruction and examination , the manner of co - operation and collaboration with other 
Universities , institutions and other agencies, the setting up of a machinery for redressal 
of grievances of employees and other such matters . 

2 . Clause 28 of the Bill enables the authorities of the University to make 
Regulations , consistent with this Act, the Statutes and the Ordinances for the conduct 
of their own business and that of the Committees, if any , appointed by them and not 
provided for by this Act, the Statutes or the Ordinances , in the manner prescribed by 
the Statutes. 

3 . Clause 41 empowers that any officer or authority of the University may delegate 
his or its powers to any other officer or authority or person under his or its respective 
control and subject to the condition that overall responsibility for the exercise of the 
powers so delegated shall continue to vest in the officer or authority delegating such 
powers . 


4 . Clause 43 empowers the Central Government, by order published in the Official 
Gazette , to make provisions to remove certain difficulties, which may appear to be 
necessary or expedient and such an order is not to be made after the expiry of a period 
of three years from the commencement of the Act and such order shall be laid before 
each House of Parliament. 

5 . Clause 44 provides that every Statute , Ordinance or Regulation made under 
the Act shall be published in the Official Gazette and they shall be laid before each 
House of Parliament. 

6 . The matters for which the Statutes , Ordinances or Regulationsmay be made 
pertain to matters of procedure or detail and it is not possible to provide for them in the 
Bill . The delegation of legislative powers is, therefore , of normal character. 


532 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 36 OF 2018 


A Bill to establish bribery as a criminal offence and to promote effective practices to 
preventbribery in private sector and for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1 . (1) This Act may be called the Prevention of Bribery in Private Sector Act, 2018 . 
( 2) It extends to the whole of India. 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " bribe" includes facilitation payments , directly or through third parties, gift , 
hospitality and expenses which may or perceive to affect the outcome of business 
transactions, which are not reasonable and bonafide; 


Definitions . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


533 


Explanation . — The term bribe shall become extortion when the demand of bribe is 
accompanied by threats that endanger the personal integrity or the life of the person involved , 
or forced payment of bribe to protect legitimate right or the speed money, for expediting 
approvals and for providing or not withholding services ; 


(b ) " commercial entity " means 

(i) a body incorporated under the laws of India which carries on business 
in India or outside India ; or 


( ii) any other body corporate, wherever incorporated , which carries on 
business , or part of a business, in India ; or 

( iii ) a partnership formed under the law in India which carries on business 
in India or outside India ; or 

( iv ) any other partnership , wherever formed , which carries on business , or 
part of a business, in India : 

Explanation . — The term business includes any trade, profession , commerce or 
manufacture ; 


21 of 1860 . 
2 of 1882 . 


43 of 1961. 


(c ) confiscation means the permanent deprivation of property by order of a 
court or other competent authority and also includes forfeiture ; 

( d ) foreign public official means any person holding a legislative , executive , 
administrative or judicial office of a foreign country , whether appointed or elected as 
permanent or temporary , paid or unpaid or any person performing a public function or 
a public service for a foreign country ; 

( e) non - governmental organisation means a body incorporated under the laws 
in India or any other body corporate , wherever incorporated which carries on its 
charitable or religious activities in India , any society registered under the Societies 
Registration Act , 1860; a trust registered under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 or association 
of persons which carries on its charitable or religious activities in India and includes 
community based organisations ; 

Explanation . — The term charitable or religious activities means activities as 
defined in sub -section (15 ) of section 2 of the Income Tax Act , 1961: 
(f) person includes — 

(i) an individual ; 
(ii) a company ; 
( iii) a firm ; 
( iv) a society ; 
(v ) a trust; 
(vi) a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF); 

( vii) an association of persons or a body of individuals , whether 
incorporated or not; 

(viii ) limited liability partnership ; 

(ix ) every artificial juridical person notfalling within any of the preceding 
sub -clauses; and 

(x ) any agency , office or branch owned or controlled by such person ; 
(g ) prescribed means prescribed by rules made under this Act ; 

(h ) proceeds of crime means any property derived or obtained , directly or 
indirectly through the commission of offence under this Act; and 


534 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bribery in the 
private sector. 


(i) property means assets of every kind , whether corporeal or incorporeal, 
movable or immovable, tangible or intangible , and legal documents or instruments 
evidencing title to or interest in such assets . 

3 . ( 1 ) A person shall be guilty of committing an offence of giving bribe , when committed 
intentionally in the course of economic, financial or commercial activities when it is established 
that there is a promise , offering or giving , directly or indirectly , of an undue advantage to any 
person who directs or works, in any capacity , for a commercial entity, for the person himself 
or for another person , in order that he in breach of his duties, acts or refrains from acting in 
certain matters. 

(2 ) A person shall be guilty of committing an offence of receiving bribe,when committed 
intentionally in the course of economic, financial or commercial activities when it is established 
that there is solicitation or acceptance , directly or indirectly , of an undue advantage by any 
person who directs or works, in any capacity , for a commercial entity , for the person himself 
or for another person , in order that he in breach of his duties, acts or refrains from acting in 
certain matters . 

4 . A person shall be guilty of committing an offence of bribery to a foreign public 
officials , when committed intentionally in the conduct of international business , when it is 
established that there is an offer , promise or giving any undue pecuniary or other advantage, 
whether directly or through an intermediary, to a foreign public official, for that official or for 
a third party , in order that the official acts or refrains from acting in relation to the performance 
of official duties , in order to obtain or retain business or other improper advantage. 

Explanation . For the purpose of this section , offence of bribery of foreign public 
officials includes complicity, incitement, aiding , abetting and authorization of an act of bribery 
of a foreign public official or an attempt and conspiracy to bribe a foreign public official . 

5 . (1) Any person , who in any capacity abets or aids or instigates another person to 
commit an offence under sections 3 or 4 shall be deemed to be guilty of offence under that 
section . 

( 2 ) Any person , who attempts to commit an offence under sections 3 or 4 shall be 
deemed to be guilty of an offence under that section . 


Offence of 
Bribery of 
foreign public 
officials . 


Abet, aid or 
instigate 
another 
person to 
commit an 
offence of 
bribery . 


Offence of 
Bribing by 
commercial 
entity . 


Offence of 
bribery by 
non 
governmental 
organisation . 


6 . A commercial entity shall be guilty of committing an offence under this section if a 
person associated with it , bribes another person intending 

(i) to obtain or retain business for the commercial entity, or 

( ii ) to obtain or retain an advantage in the conduct ofbusiness for the commercial 
entity : 

Provided that the commercial entity may in defence prove that it has in place adequate 
procedures, as may be prescribed , designed to prevent persons associated with it from 
undertaking such conduct. 

7 . A non- governmental organisation shall be guilty of committing an offence under 
this section if a person associated with it, bribes another person intending 

(i) to obtain or retain assets , grants for the non -governmental organisation ; or 

( ii ) to obtain or retain an advantage in the conduct of its charitable activities: 
Provided that the commercial entity may in defence prove that it has in place adequate 
procedures, as may be prescribed , designed to prevent persons associated with it from 
undertaking such conduct. 

8 . ( 1) Where a company contravenes any provision of this Act , every person who , at 
the time when contravention was committed , was in charge of or was responsible to , the 
company for the conduct of the business of the company as well as the company, shall be 
deemed to be guilty of offence and be punished accordingly: 


Offence of 
bribery by 
company. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


535 


Provided that nothing contained in this sub -section shall render any such person 
liable to punishment if he proves that the contravention took place without his knowledge or 
that he exercised due diligence to prevent such contravention . 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section (1 ), where any contravention 
has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with 
the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, 
manager, secretary or other officer of the company , such director,manager, secretary or other 
officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of committing contravention and shall be liable to be 
proceeded against and punished accordingly . 
Explanation . For the purposes of this section , 

(i) company means anybody corporate and includes a firm , society, trust, limited 
liability partnership or other association of persons; and 

( ii) director in relation to a firm means a partner of the firm and in relation to a 
trust means trustee of the trust. 

9 . ( 1 ) An individual guilty of an offence under sections 3 or 4 shall be liable on the first Penalties. 
offence, for imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years or to a fine not exceeding 
rupees four lakh or both and for second or subsequent contravention , for imprisonment for 
a term not exceeding ten years or to a fine not less than rupees six lakh or both . 

(2 ) any other person guilty of an offence under sections 3 or 4 shall be liable on the 
first offence , to a fine not exceeding rupees three lakh and for second or subsequent 
contravention , to a fine not less than rupees five lakh . 

(3 ) A person guilty of an offence under section 5 is liable on conviction to a fine not 
more than rupees two lakh . 

10 . ( 1) On conviction of a person the proceeds of crime derived from or involved in Confiscation 
offences under sections 3 or 4 , or the property the value of which corresponds to that of of proceeds of 

crime. 
such proceeds shall be confiscated . 

(2 ) If proceeds of crime have been transformed or converted ,by the person in part or 
in full , into other property , such property shall be liable to be confiscated . 

( 3) If proceeds of crimehave been intermingled by the person with property acquired 
from legitimate sources , such property shall be liable to be confiscated up to the assessed 
value of the intermingled proceeds. 

(4 ) Income or other benefits derived by any person from such proceeds of crime, from 
property into which such proceeds of crime have been transformed or converted or from 
property with which such proceeds of crime have been intermingled shall also be liable to 
confiscated in the samemanner and to the same extent as proceeds of crime. 

( 5) For the purpose of this section , notwithstanding any rights or privilege provided 
through any other Act or by an agreement between the parties, the adjudicating authority 
shall have authority to order any bank , financial institution , financial intermediary or 
commercial entity to provide information , seize or produce records, freeze accounts and remit 
the proceeds of crime to the designated account. 

(6 ) The proceeds of crime confiscated under this Act shall vest in the Central 
Government. 


11 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernment shall , by notification in the OfficialGazette, appoint Power to 
such number of Special Judges as may be necessary to try the offences punishable under appoint 

Special Judges. 
this Act. 

(2 ) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Special Judge under this Act 
unless he is or has been a Sessions Judge or an Additional Sessions Judge under the Code 
of Criminal Procedure, 1973 . 


536 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Appeal and 
revision . 


Protection of 
witnesses and 
reporting 
persons . 


ire 


Prevention of 
bribery by 
commercial 
entity . 


(3 ) A Special Judge shall follow the procedure prescribed by the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1973 for the trial. 

2 of 1974. 
(4 ) A Special Judge, while trying an offence punishable under this Act shall exercise all 
the powers and functions exercisable by a District Judge . 

12 . Subject to the provisions of this Act, the High Court may exercise , so far as 
applicable , all the powers of appeal and revision conferred by the Code of Criminal Procedure , 
1973 on a High Court as if the Court of Special Judge was a Court of Session trying cases 2 of 1974. 
within the local limits ofthe High Court. 

13 . ( 1) The Central Government shall take appropriate steps to provide effective 
protection from potential retaliation or intimidation to witnesses , reporting persons and 
experts who give testimony concerning offences established under the Act and to their 
relatives. 

(2 ) The Central Government shall establish procedures for the physical protection of 
such witnesses and reporting persons and for non -disclosure or limitations on the disclosure 
of information concerning the identity and whereabouts of such persons. 

( 3 ) The provisions of the sub -sections ( 1) and (2 ) shall also apply to victims in so far 
as they are witnesses. 

(4 ) In cases of extortion bribe, if the bribe giver files a complaint, he shall be protected 
under this clause as a whistleblower : 

Provided that this protection shall notbemade available in case of speed money. 

14. ( 1) The commercial entities shallmake adequate procedures , as may be prescribed , 
designed to prevent persons associated with it from undertaking bribery . 

( 2 ) The procedures shall provide for commercial entities to establish and ensure the 
effectiveness of internal controls , ethics and compliance measures for preventing and 
detecting bribery and shall inter alia, include , - 

(i) a clearly articulated and visible policy prohibiting bribery; 
( ii ) instructions for strict compliance with the policy at all levels of the entity ; 

( iii) appropriate disciplinary procedures to address violation of the procedures 
at all levels of the entity ; 

(iv ) setting up of independent monitoring body ; 

(v ) oversight of ethics and compliance measures and reporting to the independent 
monitoring body; 

(vi ) ensuring applicability of the policy and procedures to third parties such as 
agents, intermediaries , consultants, representatives, distributors , partners, contractors , 
advisors, suppliers, associates, subsidiaries and joint venture partners and seeking 
commitment from such third parties to adhere to policy prohibiting bribery ; 

(vii )measures for periodic communication and training at all levels of the entity 
of laws against bribery and entity s policy against bribery; and 

( viii ) putting in place an appropriate whistleblowermechanism including rewards 
for reporting and protection of the whistleblowers . 

15. ( 1) The banks, financial institutions and other financial intermediaries shall take 
reasonable steps to determine the identity of beneficial owners of funds deposited into the 
accounts of such customers in such manner as may be prescribed . 

( 2 ) The banks, financial institutions and other financial intermediaries shall maintain 
record of beneficial owners under sub -section ( 1) and shall provide such information as and 
when required by the adjudication authorities. 


Prevention 
and detection 
of proceeds of 
crime. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


537 


16 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Provision of 
law for the timebeing in force in relation to any of thematters provided under this Act. 

the Act not in 
derogation of 
any other law 
for the time 
being in force. 


17 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette,make rules Power to make 
to carry out the provisions of this Act . 

rules. 
( 2) Every rule make under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule. 


538 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The problem of bribery has assumed alarming proportions. It is estimated that a 
significant proportion of our Gross Domestic Product is lost on account of this widespread 
corruption in offices of public and private sector. Therefore , bribery not only hurts the 
psyche of the people but it also hurts the economic growth .Moreover, the problem is more 
hurting to the poor as they are the most vulnerable section of the society. 

Bribery by the Government officials is only one part of the issue. Bribery is also 
rampant in private sector. There is dearth of laws to address the issue of bribery in private 
sector. The Bill seeks to provide a legislative framework to resolve the issue. The Bill also 
seeks to provide for a witness protection programmeto be implemented by the Government. 

Hence this Bill . 


UDIT RAJ 


NEW DELHI; 
January 28, 2018 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


539 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 11 of the Bill provides that CentralGovernment shall appoint Special Judges to 
try the offences under this Act. The Bill , therefore if enacted , will involve expenditure from 
the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure of 
about rupees one hundred crore would be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees forty crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 17 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of this Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislation power is of a normal character. 


540 


540 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Parl 


Bill No. 54 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the protection of women from discrimination , and for the basic facilities 

like creche, recreational facilities, maternity benefits, hostel and transport facilities, 
and for the welfare measures to be taken by the employers and the State for the women 

employees working in Government establishments ; public sector enterprises 
including banks and ports, educational institutions including universities, 
colleges and schools; factories, mines, plantations, agricultural fields, 
orchards and such other places and for matters connected 

therewith and incidental thereto . 


Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commence 
ment . 


1 . ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Working Women (Basic Facilities and Welfare ) 
Act, 2018 . 


( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


( 3 ) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


541 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

Definition . 
(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in other cases , the Central Government; 

(b ) " child " includes a still born child ; 
(c ) " employer " means - 

(i) in relation to an establishment which is under the control of an 
appropriate Government, the person or authority appointed by the appropriate 
Government for the supervision and control of the employees or where no person 
or authority is so appointed , the head of the establishment; 

(ii) in relation to an establishment under any local self- government or 
authority, the person appointed by such authority or local self - government for 
the supervision and control of the employees or where no person is so appointed 
the Chief Executive Officer by whatever name called of the local self- government 
or the authority , as the case may be ; 

( iii) in other cases, the person who or the authority which has the ultimate 
control over the affairs of the establishment; 

(d ) " establishment" include an office of the appropriate Government, quasi 
Government or department including telegraph office , post office, telephone exchange, 
a mine, a plantation , an agricultural field , a hospital or nursing home, a shop or any 
business establishment, a brick kiln , construction site , any banking establishment, 
any private office or house , any school, college university or like institution , 
establishment for the exhibition of equestrian , acrobatic and other performances and 
any other such place where a woman is employed for any work whatsoever ; 

(e) " factory" means a factory as defined in the Factories Act, 1948 ; 
(f) " industry" means an industry as defined in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; 
(8) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 

(h ) " working woman " means a woman who is employed whether directly or 
indirectly through any agency or contractor, as the case may be, for wages in any 
establishment, factory or industry. 

3. It shall be the duty of the appropriate Government to ensure that no discrimination Appropriate 
is done by any establishment on gender basis with its women employees particularly in the 

Government 

to 
matter of payment of wages which are paid to her male counterpart in such establishment. 

ensure non 
discrimination 
and equal wages 
for working 

women . 
4 . ( 1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force , Employer to 
every employer shall provide basic childcare facilities such as milk , tiffin , clothes , toys , 

have childcare 

facilities for 
trained ayahs and other essential facilities for the children of women working in the 

working 
establishment. 

women . 
(2 ) The appropriate Government shall ensure that every employer of an agricultural 
field provide mobile childcare facilities for the working women in his establishment: 


Provided that two or more such employers may provide common childcare facilities for 
their establishments . 


(3 ) The appropriate Government shall open such number of creches at such places as 
it may deem necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


542 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Recreational 
facilities. 


Security 
arrangements . 


Maternity 
facilities. 


5. The appropriate Government shall ensure that every employer provides retiring 
rooms with facilities like bathroom , latrine, drinking water at the workplace or worksite of the 
working women and recreational facilities like radio and television for working women and 
their children . 

6 . The appropriate Government along with the employer shall provide adequate and 
proper security measures for the safety of working women in the establishment, factory or 
industry , as the case may be , well as to and from their places of residence. 

7 . It shallbe the duty of the appropriate Government to ensure reservation of beds and 
proper and adequate maternity facilities for the working women in the hospitals and 
dispensaries having indoor patient facilities therein . 

8 . The appropriate Government as well as an employer shall provide hostel and 
residential facilities both for married and unmarried working women nearest to their place of 
work and cheap , safe and quick transport facilities for such working women . 

9. The appropriate Government shall ensure protection from health hazardsparticularly 
for the women working in factories or industries like beedi, tobacco , stone mines, cashew , 
fish processing, salt , silk construction projects and such other establishment as may be 
prescribed . 


Hostel and 
transport 
facilities. 


Protection 
from health 
hazards. 


Register of 
women 
working 


Overriding 
effect of the 
Act. 


Power to 
make rules . 


10 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall maintain a register of working women in 
such manner and at such place as may be prescribed ; 

(2 ) The appropriate Governmentmay require an employer to furnish for the purposes 
of this Act, such statistical and other information , in such form and within such period as 
may be prescribed. 

11 . The provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall have effect 
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time 
being in force , but save as aforesaid the provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not 
in derogation of any other law for the timebeing applicable to the working women . 

12 . (1 ) The Central and State Governments may, by notification in the OfficialGazette , 
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

( 2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each house of Parliament or the Legislative Assembly and the Legislative Council , as 
the case may be ,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised 
in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if , before the expiry of the session 
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , both House agree in 
making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the rule should not be 
made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the 
case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulmentshall be without prejudice 
to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


543 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Despite the unabated female foeticides and dwindling population of girls in the country 
and the conservative attitude of the society towards women , more and more women are 
venturing out of their houses to work to support their families. As a result, the number of 
working women in Government services, factories, industries, commercial establishments , 
agriculture , mines, fish processing sector, silk industry and so on so forth is increasing day 
by day, but their conditions of employment need amelioration . Various basic and essential 
facilities which are supposed to bemade available to the working women by theGovernment 
and private employers are either absent or not adequate and satisfactory. Unfortunately, in 
most of the private sector including agricultural sector, the facilities are rather minimal or 
negligible and the working women are an exploited lot there . The existing labour laws also do 
not provide for proper medical, educational, recreational and other facilities for the working 
women and their children . As regards, other social security measures like security , transport, 
accommodation have also not been made so far. In many establishments they are not given 
equal pay for work . This discrimination has to be stopped . 


Hence it has become necessary to provide adequate welfare measures for the working 
women . 


Hence this Bill . 


UDIT RAJ 


NEW DELHI : 
January 28 , 2018 


544 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for certain childcare facilities of the working women . 
Clause 5 provides for recreational facilities for working women and their children , Clause 6 
provides that the appropriate Government to provide adequate and proper security measures 
for the safety of working women . Clause 7 provides formaternity facilities . Clause 8 provides 
for hostel and transport facilities for the working women . Clause 9 provides for appropriate 
Government shall ensure protection from health hazards of the working women . The 
expenditure relating to States shall be borne out of the Consolidated Fund of the State 
Government concerned . However, the expenditure in relation to Union territories shall be 
borne out of the Consolidated Fund of India . The Bill, if enacted , will involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees two thousand crore 
may involve as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of rupees five thousand crore is also likely to involve. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 12 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will related to matters of details only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


545 


Bill No. 38 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for constitution of special courts for women and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . (1) This Act may be called the Special Courts for Women Act, 2018 . 


( 2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


Short title 
extent and 
commence 
ment. 


( 3 ) It shall come into force at once . 


Definitions . 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 


(a ) appropriate Government means in case of a State the Government of that 
State and in all other cases , the Central Government; 


546 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Establishment 
of special 
courts for 
women . 


(b ) offence means any offence committed against a woman including rape, 
criminal assault ,mental injury and sexualharassment at any place or in any form or by 
any means either physical, verbal or any other way, or any dowry related cases where 
the sufferer is a woman ; and 

( c ) prescribed means prescribed by rules made under the Act. 
3 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall set up sufficient number of special courts 
to deal exclusively with matters arising out of atrocities or offences committed against 
to deal exclusively with matte 
women . 

( 2 ) Every special court shall consist of a Principal Judge and such number of other 
Judges to be appointed by the appropriate Government as itmay deem fit . 

4 . (1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Principal Judge , 
unless he, — 


Qualification 
for 
appointment 
as Principal 
Judge and other 
Judges of 
special court . 


(a ) is, or has been , a judicial magistrate ; or 

(b ) has, for at least two years , held the office of the Judge of the special court; 
and has, for at least five years, been associated with women s cause . 
(2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Judge, unless he, 

(a ) is, or has been , a judicialmagistrate ; or 

(b ) has, for a period of not less than five years, been practising law , and has, for 
at least five years, been associated with women s cause . 

( 3) Every Principal Judge and other Judges of a special court in a Union territory shall 
be appointed by the President. 


( 4 ) Every Principal Judge and other Judges of a special court in a State shall be 
appointed by the Governor of the State concerned . 

(5 ) At least half of the total number of Judges of a special court shall be reserved for 
women . 


Senior most 

5 . ( 1) In the event of occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the Principal Judge of 
Judge to act as a special court by reason of his death , resignation or otherwise , the seniormost Judge of that 
a Principal 
Judge or to 

court shall act as the Principal Judge until a new Principal Judge , appointed in accordance 
discharge his with the provisions of this Act to fill such vacancy , enters upon his office . 
functions in 
certain 

(2 ) If the Principal Judge is unable to discharge his functions owing to his absence 
circumstances. from duty due to any reason , the seniormost Judge of that special court shall discharge the 

functions of the Principal Judge until the Principal Judge resumes his duties . 
Term of Office . 6 . Every Principal Judge and other Judges shall hold office for a period of 

five years from the date on which he enters upon his office or until he attains, — 


( a ) in the case of the Principal Judge , the age of sixty - five years, and 


(b ) in the case of any other Judge, the age of sixty years whichever is earlier. 


Resignation . 


7 . Every Principal Judge or a Judge may , by notice in writing under his hand 
addressed to the President in case he is a Principal Judge or a Judge of a special court in a 
Union territory or to the Governor, in case he is a Principal Judge or a Judge of a special court 
in a State , as the case may be, resign from his office: 

Provided that the Principal Judge or any other Judge shall, unless he is permitted by 
the President or the Governor, as the case may be , to relinquish his office sooner, continue to 
hold office until the expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such notice or until a 
person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term 
of office , whichever is the earliest . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


547 


allowances and 


8 . The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of Salary, 
service including pension , gratuity and other retirement benefits of the Principal Judge or a allo 

other 
Judge of special court shall be such as may be prescribed : 

conditions of 
Provided that neither the salary and allowances nor the other terms and conditions of 

service of the 

Principal 
service of the Principal Judge or a Judge of a special court shallbe varied to his disadvantage Judge and 
after his appointment. 

other Judges. 


9 . Every Principal Judge shall exercise such financial and administrative powers Financial and 
over the special court as may be vested in him in such manner as may be prescribed . other powers 

of the 
Principal 

Judge. 
10 . The appropriate Government shall determine and provide categories of the Staff of the 
officers and other employees required to assist a special court in the discharge of its special court. 
functions. 


aut 


of 


11 . Save as otherwise expressly provided in this act, every special court shall Jurisdiction , 
exercise all the jurisdiction , powers and authority exercisable immediately before that day by power and 
all courts except the concerned High Court and the Supreme Court in relation to all matters of 

special courts . 
offences or atrocities committed against women under the Indian Penal Code, 1860 or 
any other law for the timebeing in force relating to women . 


45 of 1860 . 


5 of 1908 . 
2 of 1974 . 


12 . Every special court constituted under this Act shall have the same powers to Powers of 
hold any inquiry as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 and in special courts . 
a criminal court under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 . 

13. On the date of coming into force of this Act, the jurisdiction , powers and authority Exclusion of 
in relation to any offences or crimes or atrocities committed against women , shall be jurisdiction of 

cases of special 
exercisable by a special court and no other court except the High Court concerned and the 

court except 
Supreme Court shall have , or be entitled to exercise any jurisdiction , powers or authority in the High Court 
relation to such offences or crimes or atrocities committed against women . 

concerned and 

Supreme Court. 
14 . Every suit or other proceeding pending before any other court or any authority Transfer of 
immediately before the date of coming into force of this Act, being a suit or proceeding the pending cases . 
cause of action wherein it is based , is such that it would have been if it had arisen after such 
constitution , within the jurisdiction of such a special court, shall stand transferred on that 
date to such special court : 

Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to a suit or other proceedings 
pending in a High Court or the Supreme Court. 

15 . The appropriate Government shallmake necessary arrangements and provisions Free legal aid to 
for free legal aid to women for meeting the cost of litigation in special courts. 

women . 
16 . Every case in special court shall be heard on daily basis and disposed of at the Disposal of 
earliestbut in any case not later than six months from the date of filing of the suit in the court . cases by special 

courts . 
17 . (1 ) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules 
for carrying out the provisions of this Act. 

Power to make 

rules . 
( 2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not bemade , the rule shall thereafter have effectonly in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


548 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


In our society, atrocities against women are increasing day by day as a result of which 
cases of atrocities against women are piling up in court . The delay, by courts in disposing of 
the cases add to the woes of hapless women . By the time the courts give their judgement, the 
life of the women becomes miserable. Ordinary courts take unduly long time for deciding the 
cases. Therefore , it is proposed to set up special courts for women to exclusively deal with 
cases against women expeditiously. 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. 


NEW DELHI; 
January 31, 2018 . 


UDIT RAJ 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


549 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides that every State Government and Union territory 
administration shall set up sufficient number of special courts to deal exclusively with matters 
arising out of atrocities committed against women . Clause 8 provides for payment ofsalaries 
and allowances to the Principal Judge and other Judges. Clause 10 provides for appointment 
and provision of officers and staff required for special courts . Clause 15 provides for free 
legal aid to women . The expenditure in respect of special courts in States will be met out of 
Consolidated Funds of the respective States. The expenditure in respect of special courts for 
Union territories shall be met outof the Consolidated Fund of India . It is likely that an amount 
of rupees one thousand crore will be involved for setting up special courts in Union territories 
and by way of grants of States per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India. 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees two hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 17 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . Since the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


550 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 77 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the establishment of a National Agriculture and Farmers 
Commission for welfare of farmers and comprehensive development of 

agriculture and for matters connected therewith . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the National Agriculture and Farmers Commission 
Act, 2018 . 


Definitions. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India. 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 
2 . In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a ) " agriculture" includes horticulture, animal husbandry , Forestry , dairy and 
poultry farming , pisciculture , and other allied activities, whether or not undertaken 
jointly with agriculture ; 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


551 


(6 ) " agricultural produce " includes paddy , wheat, coarse cereals , pulses , 
sugarcane, gram , cotton , oilseeds, vegetables , fruits , jute , coconut, tobacco , areca 
nuts and such other agricultural produce asmay be notified by the CentralGovernment, 
from time to time; 

(c ) " Commission " means National Agriculture and Farmers Commission 
established under section 3 ; 

( d ) " farmer" means any person who cultivates land or causes it to be cultivated 
for agricultural or horticultural purposes ; 

(e ) " Fund " means the Agriculture and Farmers Development Fund constituted 
under section 6 ; and 

(1) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3. ( 1 ) The CentralGovernmentmay , by notification in the OfficialGazette , establish a 
Commission to be known as the National Agriculture and Farmers Commission for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) The Commission shall consist of — 


Establishment 
of National 
Agriculture 
and Farmers 
Commission . 


(a ) a Chairperson , having special knowledge in the field of agriculture ; and 

(b ) such number of members including agricultural economist, agriculture 
scientist and experts in matters related to the farmers, to be appointed by the Central 
Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 

( 3) The CentralGovernment shall provide such number of experts, officers and staff to 
Commission , as may be required for its efficient functioning. 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
the Chairperson ,members, experts and officers and staff of the Commission shall be such as 
may be prescribed . 
4 . The Commission shall 

(a ) determine theminimum support price of agricultural produce ; 
(b ) maintain the price of agricultural produce at appropriate levels ; 
(c ) issue the executive instructions to various agencies ; 


Functions 
of the 
Commission . 


(d ) monitor the import and export of agricultural produce ; 

(e ) formulate measures for the welfare of farmers from the adverse effects on 
agriculture ; 


( f ) prepare the national policy, from time to time, to increase the productivity of 
agriculture produce ; 

(g ) investigate into the incidents of suicide by the farmers; 

(h ) frame the rules to carry out the provisions of this Act for the welfare of 
agriculture and farmers; 

(i) protect the agricultural bio -diversity ; 

(j) protect the farmers from the fluctuations in prices of agricultural produce in 
market ; 

(k ) advice the CentralGovernment in matters related to the farmers and agriculture ; 


and 


(l) undertake such other functions asmay be assigned to it , from time to time,by 
the CentralGovernment. 


552 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Constitution 

5. ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall, by notification in the Official Gazette , constitute 
of the 

a Fund to be known as the Agriculture and Farmers Development Fund for carrying out the 
Agriculture 
and Farmers 

purposes of this Act. 
Development 

(2 ) The CentralGovernment and the State Governments shall contribute to the Fund in 
Fund . 

such ratio as may be prescribed . 
Central 

6 . The Central Government shall provide after due appropriation made by Parliament 

by law in this behalf, necessary requisite funds, from time to time, for carrying out the 
to provide 
requisite funds. purposes of this Act. 
Act to have 

7 . The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
overriding 

therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force . 
effect . 


Government 


Power to 
make rules . 


8 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment may ,by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules 
for carrying out the purpose of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two ormore successive sessions , and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be; so , however ,that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under the rule . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


553 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
In the absence of any firm principle regarding intervention in the market by Government 
to solve the problems faced by the agricultural sector and the farmers , problemsare remaining 
unchanged as ever. In the current scenario , an autonomous , powerful intervention by 
Government institutions for the protection of interests of farmers and the agriculture 
bio -diversity is very essential. Developed countries like European Union , United States of 
America , Japan etc . provide production subsidy so that innovative domestic initiatives may 
be taken to protect the farmers from the adverse effects of agriculture related problems. 
Different Commissions have been set up for different categories in our country, but there is 
no autonomous, empowered and dedicated Commission for the welfare of the agricultural 
sector till now despite the fact half of our population is dependent on agriculture which 
could protect the rights of farmers. The dedicated Commission for agriculture sector welfare 
of farmers is needed . 

Efforts are required to be made to increase the income of farmers .Monitoring in right 
way is needed to be done by bringing the implementation of crop insurance scheme into the 
purview of the Commission and farmers be protected from speculative forces like share 
market and future market. On the lines of SEBI like institution which works for more than 
three crore share holders , an agriculture regulatory institution is needed for twenty seven 
crore farmers which may look into the problem of farmers and present their view point before 
Government effectively . 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to establish a National Agriculture and Farmer Commission to 
introduce new dimensions in the field of agriculture and to work for protection , benefit and 
welfare of the farmers to bring positive bearing on economic progress of country. 


Hence this Bill. 


RODMAL NAGAR 


NEW DELHI; 
February 1, 2018 


554 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ Part II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of a National Commission for agriculture 
and Farmers. It also provides that the Central Government shall make available necessary 
experts , officers and staff for the efficientfunctioning of the Commission . Clause 6 provides 
for the constitution of an Agriculture and Farmers Development Fund. Clause 7 provides 
that the Central Government shall provide requisite funds to the Commission for carrying out 
the provisions of this Act. The Bill , therefore, if enacted , is likely to involve expenditure from 
the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual recurring expenditure of about 
rupees five hundred crore would be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


555 


Bill No. 37 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for maintenance and welfare measures to be undertaken by the State 
for the divorcee women or separated women and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
1 . (1) This Actmay be called the Divorcee Women Welfare Act, 2018. 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

( 3 ) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 

2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 


Definitions. 


( a ) " Advisory Committee " means the Divorcee Women Welfare Advisory 
Committee constituted under section 3 ; 


556 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(b ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 


13 of 1054 


1954 


( C ) " divorcee woman " means a woman whose marriage has been dissolved under 
section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 or under sections 27 and 28 of the Special 25 of 1955 
Marriage Act , 1954 or under section 10 of the Indian Divorcee Act, 1869 or under 43 
Muslim Personal Law or on any other ground on which she has been separated from 

4 of 1869 
her husband and who has no relative to support her or who has no independent 
source of livelihood including her minor children dependent on her; 

(d ) " Fund " means the Divorcee Women Welfare Fund constituted under 
section 5 ; and 


(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 


Constitution 
of the 
Advisory 
Committee . 


Functions of 
Advisory 
Committee . 


3. ( 1 ) The appropriate Government shall, by notification in the officialGazette , constitute 
a Divorcee Women Welfare Advisory Committee in each district within its jurisdiction for the 
purposes of performing functions as assigned to under this Act. 

(2 ) The District Collector shall be the ex - officio Chairperson of the Advisory Committee 
and other members shall be nominated by the appropriate Government in such manner as 
may be prescribed . 

(3 ) Each Advisory Committee shall consist of such number of members and the 
representatives of the organisations which are working for upliftment of destitute and helpless 
women of the society, to be appointed by the appropriate Government in such manner as 
may be prescribed . 
4 . The Advisory Committee shall 

(i) promote the welfare measures for the divorcee women ; 

( ii ) examine the eligibility of the divorcee woman and recommend to the 
appropriate Government to provide facilities to her under this Act; 

( iii ) give wide publicity through the electronic and print media about the welfare 
measures provided under this Act; and 

(iv) perform such other functions not inconsistent with the provisions of this 
Act as may be assigned to it by the appropriate Government, from time to time. 

5 . (1 ) The CentralGovernment shall, afterdue appropriation made by Parliament in this 
behalf , constitute a fund to be called the Divorcee Women Welfare Fund for the purpose of 
undertaking welfare measures and providing facilities to divorcee women . 

( 2 ) The Central Government and the State Governments shall contribute adequate 
funds to the Fund , from time to time, in such proportions asmay be prescribed for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act. 

6 . The appropriate Government shall on the recommendations of the Advisory 
Committee provide the women covered under this Act, the following facilities, namely : 

(a )monthly allowance to lead a minimum standard of living; 
(b ) residential accommodation free of cost ; 
(c) free education including technical education to dependent children ; 
(d ) free medical aid ; 
(e ) gainful employment; 
(f) free vocational education wherever necessary ; 

( g ) such other facilities, as may be necessary for her rehabilitation , proper 
development and for maintaining a respectable life in the society : 


Constitution 
of Divorcee 
Women 

ind 
Welfare Fund . 


Facilities to 
the Divorcee 
Women . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


557 


Provided that if any woman covered under this Act either gets gainful employment or 
remarries, all the facilities provided to her and to her dependent children in accordance with 
the provisions of this Act , shall be withdrawn from the date she gets the gainful employment 
or remarries, as the case may be . 

7 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment mayby notification in the OfficialGazette make rules for Power to make 
carrying out the purposes of the Act. 

rules . 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days , which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions , and if , before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should notbe made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


558 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
In our country there is great disparity between the economic ramifications of divorce 
between men and women .Men remain relatively unaffected while women , especially those 
with children , face difficulty in " providing food , clothing and shelter for themselves and their 
children ".Often a woman is not able to rely on her family for support because many parents 
feel they have discharged their obligations to a daughter by arranging her marriage and 
providing dowry. Dowries are not returned after divorce . Also, due to the social stigma of divorce, 
women find it difficult to remarry and usually attempt to establish an independent household . 

While one should have the right to divorce, it is still a highly stigmatizing action . 
Women are looked upon more harshly than men in this regard . There continue to be segments 
of Indian society that feel divorce is never an option , regardless of how abusive or adulterous 
the husband may be which adds to the greater disapproval for women . A divorced woman 
will often return to her parents family , butmay not be whole heartedly welcomed . She puts, 
especially if she has children , an economic burden on her family and is often given lowly 
household tasks to perform . There is also the risk that a divorced woman s presence would 
ward off possible marriages for other daughters within the household . Unavoidably , the 
overall status of the family and household is lowered by having a divorcee living with them . 
A woman s class and caste are a major factor in her acceptance back into society. Women 
from higher classes tend to have an easier time than middle or lower class women in returning 
to the social order after a divorce . An exception to this model is the extreme bottom of the 
society who have experienced little rebuff from peers after a divorce . This results from their 
already a typical status in society . 

As is well known among the poor who form the majority of the population — families 
are in no position to support even unmarried daughters or sisters. Exposures of questionable 
marriages of young girls to foreign tourists , by poor families , of continued sale of young 
women of different communities, and the high incidence of suicides, and destitution among 
poor women after divorce , provide substantial evidence of the inability of their parents or 
other relatives to provide maintenance . 

More impracticable , unrealistic and unjust is the expectation that a divorced woman 
will sue her parents and other relatives to obtain maintenance . It is an unfortunate fact of life 
that the inheritance right of daughters to their fathers property generally remain 
unimplemented because most women find it inadvisable to sue their brothers. Field research 
provides ample evidence that widowed , divorced or desterted women dependent on their 
parental families find their lives unbearable , particularly after the death of the parents. Also 
social research among poor women of all communities , has already identified growing 
irresponsibility of husbands and fathers as a serious problem . The question also needs to be 
asked — why should the brother shoulder the responsibility , while the husbands, responsible 
(in the majority of cases ) for the act of divorce are absolved of all responsibility .Moreover 
the position of a divorcee woman is more aweful in rural areas because ofbeing illiterate due 
to the conservative attitude of villagers, they are exploited to the extent possible. 

Ours being a welfare State, it is expedient to liberate the divorcee women from exploitation 
by providing them financial assistance and other necessary facilities so that they live 
honorably in the society . For this purpose Divorcee Woman Welfare Fund should be 
constituted to ensure that life of no divorcee woman will become so miserable due to poverty 
which may enable the unscrupulous elements of the society to exploit the situation and make 
their lives disgraceful in the society . 

Hence this Bill. 


UDIT RAJ 


NEW DELHI; 
February 1, 2018 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


559 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the constitution of Divorcee Women Welfare Advisory 
Committee by the appropriate Government. Clause 5 provides for constitution of the Divorcee 
Welfare Fund . It also provides that the Central Government shall contribute to the Divorcee 
Women Welfare Fund . Clause 6 provides for various facilities to the divorcee women . The 
Bill , if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated 
that a sum of rupees fifty crore may involve as recurring expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . 


A non- recurring expenditure of rupees hundred crore is also likely to be incurred . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 8 of the Bill gives power to the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying 
out the purpose of this Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


560 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 57 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide punishment for torture inflicted by public servants or any person 
inflicting torture with the consent or acquiescence of any public servant, 

and for matters connected herewith or incidental thereto . 


WHEREAS India is a signatory to the United Nations Convention Against Torture 
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment; 


AND WHEREAS it is considered necessary to ratify the said Convention and to 
provide formore effective implementation . 

Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follow : 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1. ( 1) This Actmay be called the Prevention of Torture Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

( 3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by 
notification in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


561 


Definitions. 


45 of 1860 . 


2. In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) words and expressions used but not defined in this Act shall have the same 
meanings respectively as assigned to them in the Indian Penal Code, 1860; and 

(b ) any reference in this Act to any enactment or any provision thereof shall in 
any area in which such enactment or provision is not in force be construed as a 
reference to the corresponding law or the relevant provision of the corresponding law 
if any , in force in that area . 


3 . Whoever, being a public servant or being abetted by a public servant or with the Torture . 
consent or acquiescence of a public servant, intentionally does any act for the purposes to 
punish or to obtain information from any person , whether in police custody or otherwise, 
which causes , — 


(i) grievous hurt to any person ; or 


45 of 1860 . 


( ii ) danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of any person , is 
said to inflict torture : 

Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to any pain , hurt or 
danger as aforementioned caused by any act, which is inflicted in accordance with any 
procedure established by law . 

Explanation . — For the purposes of this section , public servant shall , without 
prejudice to section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, also include any person acting in his 
official capacity under the CentralGovernment or the State Government. 

4 . Where the public servant referred to in section 3 or any person abetted by or with 
the consent or acquiescence of such public servant, tortures any person 

(a ) for the purpose of extorting from him or any other person interested in him , 
any confession or any information which may lead to the detection of an offence or 
misconduct ; 


Punishment 
for torture . 


(b ) for the purpose of punishing him for any act; or 

(c) on the ground of his religion , race, place of birth , residence, language , caste 
or community or any other ground whatsoever, 
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three years 
but which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine. 


562 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India signed the Convention against Torture and other Cruel , Inhuman and Degrading 
Treatment or Punishment (as adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 
9th December , 1975 ) on 14th October, 1997 . To ratify the Convention , it is necessary to enact 
any enabling legislation to reflect the definition and punishment for “ torture ” , and bring 
domestic laws in conformity with the Convention . 


2 . The proposed legislation , inter alia , defines the expression “ torture ” , and provides 
punishment for those involved in the incidents of torture . 

3 . The legislation fulfils India s commitment, as confirmed to the United Nations , to 
reaffirm that “ torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment are 
prohibited and constitute serious violations of human rights .” 


4 . According to the National Crime Records Bureau , as many as 308 people died in 
police custody between 2011 and 2013 but less than forty per cent of these deaths led to a 
case being registered . By providing punishment for the violation of these human rights, the 
legislation strengthens the protection of persons deprived of their liberty against torture 
and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. 

5. Out of 170 signatories to the United Nations Convention against Torture and other 
Cruel, Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or Punishment, India remains one of the only 
eight countries yet to ratify the Convention . Ratifying the Convention reaffirms the 
Government of India s commitment to the protection of basic universal human rights. 

6 . The One Hundred and Fifty Second Report of the Law Commission on Custodial 
Crimes ( 1994 ) had also recommended changes to the law to prevent custodial crimes, 
including torture . 

7 . The Supreme Court, in 2017 , observed that India s efforts to extradite suspects from 
abroad are impeded due to the fact that India does nothave an anti -torture law . The legislation , 
once enacted , will expedite India s extradition attempts and the due process of law . 


8 . The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects . 


OM PRAKASH YADAV 


NEW DELHI; 
February 9, 2018 . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


563 


Bill No. 51 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide punishment for enforced disappearance of any person by public 

servants or any person subjecting a person to an enforced disappearance 
with the consent or acquiescence of any public servant and for matters 

connected therewith or incidental thereto . 


WHEREAS India is a signatory to the United Nations International Convention for the 
Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance : 

AND WHEREAS it is considered necessary to ratify the said Convention and to provide 
for more effective implementation . 


Be it enacted by the Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


1 . (1 ) This Actmay be called the Prevention of Enforced Disappearance Act , 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India. 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


564 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions. 


2 . In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a ) words and expressions used but not defined shall have the same meanings 
respectively assigned to them in the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ; and 


45 of 1860 


(b ) any reference to any enactment or any provision thereof shall in any area in which 
such enactment or provision is not in force be construed as a reference to the corresponding 

law or the relevant provision of the corresponding law if any, if force in that area . 
Enforced 

3. Whoever, being a public servant or being abetted by a public servant or with the 
disappearance . 

consent or acquiescence of a public servant, intentionally does any act which deprives any 
person ofhis liberty , including arrest, detention , or abduction , which is followed by a refusal 
to acknowledge such deprivation of liberty or concealment of the fate or whereabouts of the 
disappeared person , which place such a person outside the protection of the law is said to 
effect an enforced disappearance : 

Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply to any deprivation of 
liberty or arrest or detention as aforementioned caused by any act , which is inflicted in 
accordance with any procedure established by law . 

Explanation . For the purposes of this section ,‘public servant shall, without prejudice 
to section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, also include any person acting in his official capacity 45 of 1860 

under the Central Government or the State Government. 
Punishment for 4 . Where the public servant referred to in section 3 or any person abetted by or with 
enforced the consent or acquiescence of such public servant, subjects a person to enforced 
disappearance. 

disappearance for whatever purpose, shall be punishable with imprisonment of either 
description for a term which shall not be less than three years but which may extend up to 
ten years and shall also be liable to fine . 

5 . Whoever,being a public servant,was aware of or consciously disregarded information 
disregarding of any enforced disappearance effected by subordinates under his effective authority, and 
information of failed to submit the matter 

failed to submit the matter to the competent authority for investigation and prosecution , 
an enforced 
disappearance . shall be punishable for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend 

up to ten years and shall also be liable to fine . 


Punis 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


565 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
India signed the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from 
Enforced Disappearance (as drafted by the United Nations General Assembly on 29th June , 
2006 ) on 6th February , 2007. To ratify the Convention , it is necessary to enable legislation to 
reflect the definition and punishment for “ enforced disappearance ” , and bring domestic 
laws in conformity with the Convention . 


2 . The legislation fulfils India s commitment to the United Nations to the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and to a legal system that offers remedies for human rights 
violations by the State . 


3 . Enforced disappearances are human rights violations which not only cause an 
unlawful deprivation of liberty of the individual, but cause psychological, economic and 
social distress to the families of the “ disappeared ” individual who are unaware of the fate of 
the person . The legislation recognises, as in the Convention , the “ right of any victim to 
know the truth about the circumstances of an enforced disappearance and the fate of the 
disappeared person , and the right to freedom to seek , receive and impart information to this 


end. " 


4. India s history ismarred with violations of human rights and enforced disappearances. 
A Human Rights Watch report in 2007 noted the revelation of6 ,000 secret cremations by the 
police in just one of the erstwhile districts of Punjab . A report by Association of the Parents 
of Disappeared Persons indicated that more than 8 ,000 people have gone missing under 
suspiciouscircumstances in Jammu and Kashmir between 1989 and 2008 . Asregularly reported , 
the incidents are not limited to disturbed areas but affect people of all ages and professions 
in the States of Andhra Pradesh , Gujarat,Maharashtra , Uttar Pradesh , Bihar, Rajasthan and 
Odisha. It is necessary to enable legislation that prevents future enforced disappearances , 
and protects the citizens from such crimes. 

5 . The proposed legislation , inter alia , defines the expression “ enforced 
disappearance ” , and provides punishment for those involved in subjecting an individual to 
an enforced disappearance . 

6 . The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects . 


OM PRAKASH YADAV 


NEW DELHI; 
February 9, 2018 


566 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 81 OF 2018 


A Bill to promote conception , experimentation and implementation of educational 
innovations in the country by establishing the Educational Innovations 
Commission and for matters connected therewith and 

incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


CHAPTERI 


Short title , 
extent and 


commencement. 


PRELIMINARY 
1. (1 ) This Act may be called the Educational Innovations Commission Act , 2018 . 
( 2) It extends to the whole of India. 

( 3 ) It shall comeinto force on such date as the Central Governmentmay , by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

(i) " Chairperson " means the Chairperson of the Commission ; 

( ii) " Commission " means the Educational Innovations Commission established 
under section 3 ; 


Definitions. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


567 


( iii) "Committee " means a Committee appointed under section 23; 
(iv) " Council" means a Council constituted under section 22 ; 
(v) " Executive Chairperson " means the Executive Chairperson ofthe Commission ; 

(vi) " Fellow " means a person duly appointed as a fellow of the Commission 
under section 24; 

(vii) " Fund " means the Fund of the Commission established under section 18; 

(viii ) " Member" means a Member of the Commission nominated or appointed 
under sub-section (3) of section 5 ; 

(ix) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 
( x ) " regulations" means regulations made under section 33 ; and 
(xi )" Vice- Chairperson " means the Vice -Chairperson of the Commission . 


CHAPTERII 


ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND COMPOSITION OF INDIA EDUCATIONAL 

INNOVATIONS COMMISSION 


3 . ( 1 ) For the purpose of promoting conception , experimentation and Establishment 
implementation of educational innovations in the country, the CentralGovernment shall, of 

Commission . 
by notification in the Official Gazette, establish a Commission by the name of the 
Educational Innovations Commission with effect from such date as may be specified in 
the notification. 

(2) The Commission shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and 
common seal and may sue or be sued in its corporate name and shall , subject to be 
provisions of this Act, be competent to acquire , hold and dispose of property , both 
movable and immovable , and to contract and do all things necessary for the purposes of 
this Act . 

4 . The headquarters of the Commission shall be at Delhi or at such other place, as the Headquarters 
Central Governmentmay, by notification in the Official Gazette , specify. 

Commission . 


of 


5 . ( 1) The Commission shall consist of the Chairperson and twelve other members, Composition 
namely : 

of 

Commission . 
(a ) the PrimeMinister of the India, ex -officio Chairperson ; 
(b ) the Minister of Human Resource Development, ex -officio Vice -Chairperson; 
(c) the Executive Chairperson nominated under sub - section (2 ); 

(d ) the Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Human Resource 
Development, ex-officio member ; 

(e ) the Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Finance , ex - officio 
member; 

(f) the Additional Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Human 
Resource Development, Department of Higher Education , ex-officio member ; 

(g ) the Vice - Chancellor of a University , by rotation in such manner asmay be 
prescribed from amongst the Vice - Chancellor of CentralUniversities, ex -officio member; 

(h ) the Chairman of the Central Board of Secondary Education , ex-officio member; 

(i) the Director, National Council of Educational Research and Training , 
ex -officio member; 

(j) one Member for innovation in science, technology and vocational courses; 


568 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(k ) one Member for innovations in programmes relating to humanities , art, craft 
and other cultural courses and value -oriented education ; 

(1) one Member for innovations in pedagogicalmethods including those related 
to curriculum , evaluation and teaching -learning aids; 

(m ) one Member for innovations in physical education including courses related 
to gymnastics , aquatics , athletics, combatives, Indian and universal games , Yogic 
(physical and psychological) exercise, health , Scouts and Guides, National Cadet Corps 
and National Service Scheme programmes. 

( 2) The Executive Chairperson referred to in sub -clause (c ) of sub -section ( 1) shall be 
nominated by the Chairperson from a panel of three persons recommended by the Search 
Committee appointed under section 7 : 

Provided that the first Executive Chairperson shall be nominated for a period of two 
years . 

( 3) Each Member referred to in clauses (j) to (m ) of sub - section ( 1) shall be nominated 
by the CentralGovernment from a panel of three persons recommended by Search Committee 
appointed under section 7 : 

Provided that the first appointment of the Members referred to in this sub - section , 
shall be made by the Chairperson on the recommendation of the Executive Chairperson from 
amongst such persons as he thinks fit . 

6 . (1) A person to be nominated as an Executive Chairperson under sub -section (2) of 
section 5 , shall , 

( a ) be a citizen of India ; 
(b) be a renowned educationist ,devoted to educationalreforms and innovations ; 
(c ) have proven record of reforms and innovations ; 


Qualifications 
of Executive 
Chairperson 


and of 


Members . 


(d ) have actual experience in experimentation and implementation of reforms and 
innovations; 
(e) be well versed in the educational philosophy of — 

(i) pioneering educationist of India, and 

( ii ) leading pioneers of educational innovations in the world ; and 
(f) have sound knowledge of Indian and universal culture. 
(2 ) A person to be nominated as a Member under sub -section ( 3 ) of section 5 , shall: 

(a ) be a citizen of India; 
(b )be a renowned educationist, devoted to educational reforms and innovations; 

(c ) have proven record of reforms and innovations in the relevant fields of 
sciences, technology, vocational courses, humanities, arts, crafts and other cultural 
courses and value oriented courses, pedagogical courses and methods, physical 
education, yoga , health , Scouts and Guides , National Cadet Corps and National Service 
Scheme programmes; 

(d ) have actual experience in experimentation and implementation of reforms and 
innovations; 
(e ) be well versed in the educational philosophy of 

(i) pioneering educationist of India , and 

(ii) leading pioneers of educational innovations in the world ; and 
(1) have sound knowledge of Indian and universal culture . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


569 


Committee 


7 . ( 1 ) For the purpose of nomination of Executive Chairperson and Members under Search 
sub -sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of section 5 , the CentralGovernment shall appoint a Search Committee Con 
consisting of three persons who , in the opinion of the Central Government, are eminent 
educationists having wide knowledge of educational reforms and innovations and are of 
high repute and integrity. 

(2 ) The Central Government shall designate one of these persons as the Chairperson 
of the Committee . 

( 3) The Search Committee shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed . 

(4 ) A member of the Search Committee shall not be entitled to receive any compensation 
for his service but shall be reimbursed for the travelling and other expenses incurred by him 
in discharge of his duties. 

(5 ) The expenses referred to in sub -section (4 ) shall be paid out of the Fund. 

8. (1) The term of office of Members, other than ex-officio members, who are appointed Terms and 
on the recommendation of the Executive Chairperson , shall be two years from the date of conditions of 
their nomination . 

office of 

Executive 
( 2 ) The term of office of the Executive Chairperson and Members , other than Chairperson 
ex -officio members , who are nominated on the recommendation of Search Committee , shall and of 

Members 
be five years from the date of their nomination . 

other than ex 
(3 ) The term of office of an ex -officio member shall continue so long as he holds office 

officio 
by virtue of which he is such a member. 

members . 
(4 ) The terms and conditions of office of the Executive Chairperson and the Members 
other than ex -officio members shall be such as may be prescribed . 

(5 ) The Executive Chairperson and the Members sub - section shall be whole time 
salaried persons . 
(6 ) The salaries and other emoluments of — 

(i) the Executive Chairperson shall not be less than that of the Secretary to the 
Government of India ; and 

( ii ) the Members other than ex - officio members shall notbe less than that of the 
Additional Secretary to theGovernment of India . 

9 . (1) On occurrence of any vacancy in the office of the Executive Chairperson due to Filling up of 
death , resignation or any other reason , the same shall be filled in by the Chairperson by vacancies . 
nominating a person in the manner provided in section 5 . 

( 2) On occurrence of any vacancy in the office of theMembers due to death , resignation 
or any other reasons, the same shallbe filled in by the Central Government by appointing or, 
as the case may be, nominating a person in the manner provided in section 5 . 

10 . A person shall be disqualified for being appointed or nominated or being an Disqualifications. 
Executive Chairperson or a Member of the Commission if such person , 

(a ) is, or any time, being adjudged insolvent; 
(b ) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by the competent court; 

(C) is or has been convicted of any offence which , in the opinion of the Central 
Government, involves normal turpitude; or 

(d ) has, either directly or indirectly , any financial or other interest which is likely 
to affect prejudicially his functioning . 

11 . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - section ( 1) of section 8 , the Removal and 
Chairperson or, as the case may be, the Central Governmentmay, at any time, remove the resignation of 
Executive Chairperson or any Member from office if, in its opinion , such Executive Chairperson 

Executive 
Chairperson 
and Member. 


570 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


or a Member, — 

( a ) is, or has become subject to any the disqualifications mentioned in 
section 10 ; 

(b ) has been guilty of misconduct in discharge of his duties ; 

( c) has become physically or mentally incapable of discharging duties as an 
Executive Chairperson or member ; 

(d ) has so abused his position as to render his continuance in office prejudicial 
to the public interest; or 

( e ) has, without reasonable cause , refused or failed to perform his duties for a 
period of not less than three months: 

Provided that the Executive Chairperson or a Member shall not be removed from 
his office unless an opportunity of being heard is given . 

(2) The Executive Chairperson may, by writing under his hand addressed to the 
Chairperson resign his office . 

( 3) Any Member, who is appointed , may, by writing under this hand addressed to the 
Chairperson , resign his office . 

(4 ) Any Member, who is nominated may ,by writing under his hand addressed to the 
CentralGovernment, resign his office . 

12 . (1) The Commission shall meet at such time and at such place and shall, subject to 
sub - sections (2 ) to , observe such rules of procedure with regard to transaction of its business 
at the meetings as may be provided by regulations: 

Provided that the Commission shall meet at least once in every month . 

(2 ) If the Chairperson , for any reason , is unable to attend any meeting , the Vice 
Chairperson or in his absence , the Executive Chairperson shall preside over the meeting of 
the Commission . 

( 3) All questions at a meeting of the Commission shall be decided by a majority of 
votes of the members present and voting, and in case when there is an equality of votes, the 
Chairperson or in his absence, the Vice - Chairperson or in his absence , the Executive 
Chairperson shall have and exercise a second or casting vote . 

(4 ) The quorum at the meeting of the Commission shall notbe less than three. 
13. (1) The Commission , in order to enable it to perform its functions,may — 
(a ) with the approval of the CentralGovernment. 

(i) appoint a Secretary, and 
( ii) determine such number and category of other officers and employees, 


Meetings of 
Commission . 


Officers and 
employees of 
Commission . 


and 


pro 


Acts and 

eed 
presumed to 
be valid . 


(b ) appoint other officers and employees so determind . 
( 2 ) The manner of recruitment of, the salary and allowances payable to , and other 
conditions of service of the Secretary, officers and other employees, shall be such asmay be 
determined by the Commission by regulations. 

14 . (1) No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be questioned or be invalid on 
the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in , or any defect in the constitution of the 
Commission . 

(2 ) No act done by any person acting in good faith as an Executive Chairpersons or a 
member shall be deemed to be invalid merely on the ground that he was disqualified to be an 
Executive Chairperson or a member or that there was any other defect in his appointment or 
nomination . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


571 


571 


CHAPTER III 


Objects of 
Commission . 


OBJECTS, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF COMMISSION 
15. The objectives of the Commission shall be as follows, 

(a ) to conceive, experiment upon and implement such innovative proposals in the field 
of education and learning as would transform the objective , contents and methods of 
education in the light of the vision of great pioneers and educationists of freedom movement 
in the country and of progressive educationists of the world and in light of the needs of the 
contemporary world in its march towards a future that would be in harmony with the ideals of 
liberty, equality and fraternity ; 

(b ) to introduce and nurture innovations in the educational system so as to reflect 
perennial spiritual knowledge of the country , robust intellectuality and creativity and the 
ideals of man -making education , integral development of personality, synthesis of scientific 
realism and artistic imagination , child -centered education , value- oriented education and 
skill- oriented education ; 

(c ) to study and derive lessons from the ongoing experiments in education that are 
taking place in the country as also elsewhere and to foster all the valuable innovative work 
and promote the same for larger expansion and utilization ; 

(d ) to develop a system of education that reflects the highest ideals of Indian culture 
and imparts among students vibrant spirit of patriotism and deepest concern for the highest 
welfare of humanity, world peace and world unity ; 

(e ) to evolve, in particular, programmes and methods of studies that would instill , 
among students and promote in various sectors of the educational system , devotion to the 
duties enumerated in article 51A of the Constitution ; 


(f) to promote, sustain and foster all innovative programmes related to the entire human 
life -style including earliest stages of pre- natal care and scaling up to the highest levels of 
excellence and leadership contributing to the growth of the individual, covering thus the 
entire gamut of the educational system appropriate to a knowledge society and the ideal of 
unending education . 

16 . ( 1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall conceive , experiment Functions of 
upon and implement such innovative proposals in the field of education and learning as Commission . 
would transform the objectives, contents and methods of education so as to promote the 
objectives of the Commission . 

(2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing function , the 
Commission shall perform the following functions, namely : 

(i) to promote experimentation , designing and development of the contents of 
learning which would inspire pupils to foster the over-arching aimsof education to be 
achieved by the Commission ; 

( ii ) to promote, explore and invent new methods of pedagogy and evaluation so 
as to make the learning process interesting , instructive , experimental and practical; 

(iii ) to experimentupon the contents and methods of learning at its own innovative 
institutions or innovative institutions selected by it from those existing ; 

( iv ) to promote and recommend , on the basis of results of its experiments carried 
out on its own innovative institutions or innovative institutions selected by it as are 
found by it to be appropriate to achieve the objectives of the Commission ; 

(v ) to establish institutions (including institutions for education and training of 
teachers) for experimentation and implementation of the educational innovations 
promoted , explored and invented by it and for education and training of teachers for 
that purpose ; 


572 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


(vi) to recognise as a recognised institution , any institution for experimentation 
and implementation of the educational innovations recommended by it and for education 
and training of teachers for that purpose ; 

(vii ) to withdraw recognition of an institution for breach of conditions of 
recognition after giving it an opportunity of being heard ; 

( viii) to establish teachers education and training institutions of innovative 
education and to provide for education and training of teachers for implementation of 
educational innovations recommended by them ; 

(ix ) to experiment, promote and develop the courses which facilitate students to 
switch over from existing system of education to the innovative system of education 
developed by it ; 

( x ) to promote innovations in evaluations and to establish appropriate testing 
service ; 


(xi) to support innovations in schools and Universities and educational 
institutions of research , experimentation , training and extension services ; 


(xii) to evolve programmes of innovations in regard to the aims, methods and 
contents of education ; 


Powers of 
Commission . 


( xiii ) to endeavour to enrich the present system of education so as to make it 
more responsive to the ideals of Indian Nationalism and Internationalism ; 

(xiv ) to develop new system of education as supplementary or alternative to 
existing system of education ; 

( xv) to perform such other functions as are necessary for, and conducive to , the 
promotion of the objectives of the Commission . 

17. (1) The Commission shall have the power to do all such things as are necessary 
for, and conducive to , the efficient performance of its functions under this Act. 

(2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the 
Commission shall have following powers, namely: 

(i) to carry out research in aims and contents of education and methods of 
pedagogy and evaluation ; 

(ii) to institute fellowships and scholarships for carrying out research in aims 
and contents of education and methods of pedagogy and evaluation ; 

( iii) to organize workshops, conferences, symposia and such other meetings to 
elicit ideas for educational innovations ; 

( iv ) to have access to all the materials, includingbooks, manuscripts, lithographs, 
inscriptions on walls of ancient buildings and such other places , which are available 
with , or is in possession of, any authority established , by or under any law within the 
gountry and is relevant to the aims and contents of education and methods of pedagogy 
and evaluation ; 

(v) to recognize or establish and conduct innovative institutions of education 
with special provision for innovative aims, contents and methods of teaching, learning 
and evaluation ; 


( vi) to aim at excellence in the innovative system of education ; 

(vii) to grant to the students of that system , certificates equivalent to the 
certificates granted by the established system of education at the appropriate level; 

(viii ) to determine standards of courses proposed or supported by it under its 
functions related to innovations; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


573 


( ix ) to allocate and disburse grants out of the fund 

( a ) for its innovations and for innovations in other institutions ; 

(b ) to institutions and courses ( including institutions and courses for 
teachers education and training) recognized by it for the purpose ofdeveloping 
them so as to promote experimentation and implementation of educational 
innovations; 

(c ) for grant of fellowships and scholarships to carry outresearch in areas 
relevant to the aims and objects of the Commission ; 
(x ) to appoint Secretary and other officers and employees; 
(xi) to constitute council as mentioned in section 22 ; 
(xii ) to temporarily associate persons with the Commission ; 
( xiii) to appoint committees for performing its functions and exercising its powers; 

( xiv) to consult and obtain concurrence of the various bodies in respect of recognition 
and accreditation granted by the statutory boards and Universities for the purpose of arriving 
at equivalence of the courses, programmes and evaluation system established by it with the 
existing standards of education ; 

(xv) to conduct the processes of the consultation in the spirit of cooperation and 
flexibility and to enhance and encourage innovationsby transcending the barriers of rigidity 
and obsolete methodologies ; 

(xvi) to promote the spirit of decentralisation , freedom of initiative and strictness in 
regard to discipline and maintenance of high standards; and 

(xvii ) to collaborate , to negotiate and to arrive at agreements and arrangements with 
the Government, as also with schools , Universities, centers and institutions ( including 
autonomous institutions). 


CHAPTER IV 


FINANCE , ACCOUNTS , AUDIT AND ANNUAL REPORT OF COMMISSION 
18. (1) The Commission shall have its own fund and all receipts of the Commission Fund of 
shall be carried thereto and all payments by the Commission shall be made therefrom . Commission . 

( 2) The CentralGovernmentmay, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in 
this behalf , grant to the Commission such sums of money as itmay consider necessary. 

( 3 ) The Commission may accept grants, subventions, donations and gifts from a 
local authority or any individual or body , whether incorporated or not, for the purposes of 
this Act. 

(4 ) The Commission may spend such sums as it thinks fit for the performance of its 
functions under this Act and such sums shall be treated as an expenditure payable out of the 
fund of the Commission . 

(5 ) All moneys belonging to the fund of the Commission shall be kept in any 
corresponding new Bank specified in column 2 of the First Schedule to the Banking 
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings ) Act, 1970 , and in column 2 of 
the First Schedule to the Banking Companies ( Acquisition and Transfer of 
Undertakings ) Act, 1980 and approved by the CentralGovernment for the purpose or 
invested in securities authorised by the Trusts Act, 1882 , at the discretion of the 
Commission . 

19. (1 ) The Commission shall, by such date in each year as may be prescribed submit Budget. 
to the CentralGovernment for approval a budget in the prescribed form for the next financial 
year showing the estimated receipts and expenditure and the sums which would be required 
from the CentralGovernment during the financial year. 


5 of 1970. 


40 of 1980 . 
2 of 1982 . 


574 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Accounts and 
Audit. 


(2 ) If any sum granted by the CentralGovernment remains wholly or partly unspent in 
any financial year, the unspent sum may be carried forward to the next financial year and 
taken into account in determining the sum to be provided by the CentralGovernment for that 
year. 

(3 ) No sum shall be expended by or on behalf of the Commission unless the expenditure 
is covered by provision in the budget approved by the CentralGovernment. 

20 . ( 1 ) The accounts of the Commission shall be prepared and maintained in such form 
and in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The Commission shall cause to be prepared for each financial year an annual 
statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed . 

( 3) The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by an auditor duly qualified to act 
as an auditor of companies under section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013 and appointed by 18 of 2013 . 
the Commission . 

(4 ) Every auditor appointed to audit the accounts of the Commission under this Act 
shall have a right to demand the production of books of accounts, connected vouchers and 
other documents and papers, to inspect the offices of the Commission and to require such 
information from the Commission as hemay think necessary for the performance of his duty 
as an auditor. 


Annual 
report. 


(5 ) The auditor shall send a copy of his report together with a copy of audited accounts 
to the Commission which shall, as soon as may be after the receipt of the audit report, 
forward the same to the CentralGovernment. 

(6 ) The CentralGovernment shall , as soon as may be after the receipt of audit report 
under sub -section (5 ), cause the same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 

21. (1 ) The Commission shall, during each financial year, prepare , in such form and at 
such time as may be prescribed , an annual report giving a true and full account of its 
activities during the previous financial year and copies of such report shall be forwarded to 
the CentralGovernment. 

(2 ) The CentralGovernment shall cause every such report to be laid before both Houses 
of Parliament within a period of six months from the date of its receipt under sub - section ( 1 ). 


CHAPTER V 


EDUCATIONAL INNOVATIONS COUNCILS, COMMITTEES AND FELLOWS 


Constitution 
of Educational 
Innovations 
Councils. 


22 . ( 1 ) There shall be constituted by the Commission , four Educational Innovations 
Councils as follows,namely : 

(i) a Council for innovations in programmes relating to science , technology and 
vocational courses ; 


(ii) a Council for innovations in programmes relating to languages , humanities, 
value -oriented education , socially useful work , art, craft and other cultural courses 
such as music, drama, dance ; 

( iii) a Council for innovations in pedagogical methods; 

( iv ) a Council for innovations in physical education . 
( 2 ) Each Council shall consist of the Executive Chairperson who shall be the 
Chairperson of that Council. 

(3 ) The member referred to in clauses (j), (k) and (m ) of sub -section ( 1) of section 5 
shall respectively be the member -secretary of the Councils referred to in clauses (i), ( ii), ( iii) 
and ( iv ) of sub -section ( 1). 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


575 


(4 ) Each Council shall consist of four scholars to be nominated by the Commission as 
members and shall be selected in such manner as may be prescribed by regulations from 
amongst eminent educationalists in the subjects of innovations for which the Council is 
constituted . 

(5) The Council shall meet at such time and place and shall observe such rules of 
procedure with regard to transaction of its business at the meetings as may be prescribed by 
regulations. 

(6 ) The Council shall perform such other functions and exercise such powers as may 
be prescribed by regulations . 

23 . ( 1 ) The Commission may appoint one or more Committees consisting of not more Appointment 
than five of its members or members of a Council orboth , for performing such of the functions of committees 
or for exercising such of its powers as may be delegated by it. 

and delegation 

of functions 
(2 ) The Commission shall, while appointing a Committee under sub -section ( 1), and powers . 
designate one member of the Committee as the Chairperson of the Committee . 


( 3 ) The Committee shall meet at such time and place , and shall observe such rules of 
procedure with regard to transaction of its business at the meeting as may be determined 
by it. 


24 . ( 1 ) For the purpose of carrying out research in educational innovations, there shall Fellows. 
be a scheme of fellowships which shall consist of not more than twenty - five fellows. 


(2 ) Each fellow shall be selected by a committee appointed by the Commission for that 
purpose , from amongst eminent educationists . 
(3 ) Each fellow shall, — 

( a ) carry out research in such subject related to educational innovations as 
assigned to him by the Commission ; 

(b ) for the purpose of research in the subject assigned to him , organise , 
consultation groups, seminars, workshops and conferences ; 

(c ) during his term , write a thesis on the subject assigned to him ; and 

(d ) make himself available to the Commission for any consultation necessary in 
respect of the subject of research or thesis assigned to him . 
(4 ) The term of each fellow shall be one year : 


Provided that where the Commission is of opinion that in order to enable the fellow to 
complete his research or thesis, it is necessary so to do , it may extend his term for a period not 
more than one year. 

( 5 ) The salary and allowances payable to a fellow shall be such as may be determined 
by the Commission by regulations. 


CHAPTER VI 


MISCELLANEOUS 
25 . (1) The Commission may associate with itself in such manner and for such purpose, Temporary 
as may be determined by the regulations, any person whose assistance or advice it may associations 
require in performance of its functions. 

of persons 

with 
( 2) A person associated by the Commission with it under Sub- section ( 1) shall have Commission 
the right to speak in or otherwise to take part in the meetings of the Commission but shall not or Council. 
have the right to vote thereat. 

(3 ) The Commission may provide for payment of such allowances and expenses to a 
person associated with it under sub -section clause (1) as may be determined by regulations. 


576 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ Part II — 


(4 ) The Council may associate with itself in such manner and for such purpose , as may 
be determined by the regulations, any person whose assistance or advice itmay require in 
performance of its functions. 

(5 ) A person associated by the Council with it under sub -section ( 1) shall have the 
right to speak in or otherwise to take part in the meetings of the Council but shall not have the 
right to vote thereat. 


(6 ) The Council may provide for payment of such allowances and expenses to a 
person associated with it under sub - section ( 1) as may determined by bye -laws. 


Authentication 
of orders and 
other 
instruments . 


26 . (1 ) All order and decisions of the Commission shall be authenticated by the 
signature of the Executive Chairperson or any other member authorised by the Commission 
in this behalf and all other instruments issued by the Commission shall be authenticated by 
the signature of the Secretary or any other officer of the Commission authorised by the 
Commission in this behalf . 

(2) All decisions of a Council shallbe authenticated by the signature of the Chairperson 
of the Council. 

(3 ) All decisions of a Committee shall be authenticated by the signature of the 
Chairperson of the Committee or any other member of the Committee authorised by the 
Chairperson in this behalf. 

27 . (1 ) In performance of its functions under this Act, the Commission shall be bound 
by such directions on questions of policy as the Central Governmentmay give in writing to 
it from time to time: 

Provided that the Commission shall be given an opportunity to express its views 
before any direction is given under this sub -section . 

(2 ) The decision of the CentralGovernment,whether a question is one of policy ornot, 
shall be final. 

28. (1) In performance of its functions under this Act, the Council shall be bound by 
such directions on questions of policy as the Commission may give , in writing, to it from time 
to time: 


Power of 
Central 
Government 
to issue 
directions to 
Commission . 


Power of 
Commission 
to issue 
directions to 
Councils . 


Provided that the Council shall be given an opportunity to express its views before 
any direction is given under this sub - section . 

(2) The decision of the Commission , whether a question is one of policy or not, shallbe 
final. 

29. The Executive Chairperson , member, officer and employee of the Commission 
shall, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of the provisions of this Act or of any 
rules or regulations made thereunder, be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of 
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code. 


Members , 
offic 

and 
employees of 
Commission 
to be public 
servants . 


45 of 1860 . 


30. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Commission or 
any member, officer or employee of the Commission for anything which is in good faith done 
or intended to be done in pursuance of the provisions of this Act or any rules or regulations 
made thereunder. 


Returns and 
information . 


31. The Commission shall furnish to the Central Government such return or other 
information with respect to its property or activities as the Central Governmentmay, from 
time to time, require . 

32 . (1 ) The Central Governmentmay, by notification in the officialGazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


Power to 
make rules . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


577 


( 2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 

33. (1) The Commission may , with the previous approval of the CentralGovernment, Power to 
by notification in the OfficialGazette , make regulations not inconsistent with the provisions make 
of this Act, and the rules made thereunder for enabling it to perform its functions under this regulations. 
Act. 

(2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such 
regulations may provide for all or any of thematters expressly required or allowed by this Act 
to be specified by regulations. 

34 . ( 1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions not remove 
inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act as appears to it to be necessary or expendient for 
removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made under this section after the expiry of two 
years from the commencement of this Act. 


difficulties. 


( 2 ) Every ordermade under this section shall be laid as soon asmay be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament. 


578 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The status of the educational system that is prevalent today needs to be innovated . 
The stake holders in the field of education have been voicing the need for such appropriate 
changes that may cater to the multidimensional needs of students of modern India. Such 
changes are possible only if the primacy of the child and youth is kept in centre of attention 
of the society. Reformative ideas can be fruitful only if we keep in view the holistic nature of 
education and indispensable interconnections between various stages of education as also 
the aims, methods and contents relating to nationalism , internationalism , child -centered 
education , value - oriented education and skill -oriented education . 

Modern developments of communication technology need to be utilized so that the 
process of transmission of knowledge are enriched . Development of different methodologies 
need to be employed in order to ensure balanced growth of the Hand , Heart and Head , as 
also ofman -making education and integral education . This necessitates harmonious blending 
of scientific , philosophical, aesthetic , ethical and spiritual pursuits . Educational researches 
conducted by pioneering educationists of India and the would need to be pooled together 
and fresh fields of research need to be developed , monitored and guided on a permanent 
basis . 


The spirit of India s perennial spiritual knowledge , robust intellectuality and abundant 
creativity needs to percolate and inspire the renewal and updating of the curricula throughout 
our system of education . At the same time, the idealof universe as a family contained in the 
Indian Adage " Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam " has to guide the international dimensions of our 
education system . 

Hence this Bill. 


OM PRAKASH YADAV 


NEW DELHI; 
February 9, 2018 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


579 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the establishment of Educational Innovation 
Commission . Clause 7 provides for appointment of a Search Committee . It also provides for 
reimbursement of travelling and other expenses to the members of Search Committee . 
Clause 8 , and sub - clause (2 ) of clause 13 provide for salaries and allowances of the Executive 
Chairperson , members other than ex -officio members, officers and employees of the 
Commission , respectively. Clause 18 of the Bill stipulates that the fund of the Commission 
shall consist of all receipt of the Commission and stipulates that the Central Government 
shall provide grants after due appropriation by law . Clause 24 provides for selection of 
fellows. 


Clause 25 provides for payment of allowance and expenses to the persons associated 
with the Commission or a Council. The Bill, therefore , if enacted would involve expenditure 
from the Consolidated Fund of India. A recurring expenditure of rupees five hundred crore is 
likely to be involved from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


This Bill involves the delegation of legislative powers in the following respects: 


Clause 5 . — Item (g ) of sub -cluase (1 ) of this clause inter- alia empowers the Central 
Government to prescribe by rules , the manner of appointment by rotation of the Vice 
Chancellor of a University as a member of the Commission . 


Clause 8. — Sub -clause (4 ) of this clause empowers the CentralGovernment to prescribe 
by rules, the terms and conditions of office of the Executive Chairperson and the members 
other than ex - officio members of the Commission . 


Clause 12 . — Sub -clause ( 1) of this clause empowers the Commission to prescribe by 
regulations , the time and the place of the meetings of the Commission and the rules of 
procedure with regard to transaction of its business at the meetings. 


Clause 13 . — Sub -clause (2 ) of this clause empowers the Commission to determine by 
regulations, the manner of recruitment, salary and allowances and other conditions of service 
of the Secretary, officers and other employees of the Commission . 


Clause 16 . — Item (XV ) sub -clause ( 2 ) of this clause empowers the Commission to 
prescribe by regulations , such other functions to be performed by the Commission . 


Clause 19 . — Sub - clause ( 1 ) of this clause empowers the CentralGovernment to prescribe 
by rules, the date for submission of budget of the Commission to the Central Government 
and the form in which the budget shall be prepared . 


Clause 20 . — (i) Sub - clause ( 1 ) of this clause empowers the Central Government to 
prescribeby rules, the form and themanner in which the accounts of the Commission shall be 
prepared and maintained; 


( ii ) Sub - clause (2 ) empowers the CentralGovernment to prescribe by rules , the form in 
which the Commission shall prepare an annual statement of accounts . 


580 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Clause 21. – Sub -clause (1) of this clause empowers the Central Government to 
prescribe by rules, the form in which and the time atwhich the Commission shall prepare its 
annual report and submit to the Central Government. 


Clause 22. — (i) Sub -clause (4 ) of this clause empowers the Commission to prescribe 
by regulations, the manner in which the four scholars for each council shall be selected 
amongst eminent educationalists in the subject of innovations; 


( ii ) Sub -clause (5 ) empowers the Commission to prescribe by regulations, the time and 
the place ofmeetings of the Council and the rules of procedure for transaction of business at 
its meetings; 


(iii ) Sub -clause (6 ) empowers the Commission to prescribe by regulation, the other 
functions to be performed and other powers to be exercised by the Council . 


Clause 23. — (i) Sub -clause (1) of this clause empowers the Commission to delegate its 
functions to be performed and its powers to be exercised by the Committee as may be 
appointed by the Commission ; 


( ii ) Sub -clause (2 ) empowers the Committee to determine the time and the place of 
meeting of the Committee and the rules of procedure to be observed for transaction of 
business at the meeting. 


Clause 24 . — Para ( ii) of Sub -clause (4 ) of this clause empowers the Commission to 
determine by regulations the salary and allowances payable to a fellow . 


Clause 25 . — (i) Sub -clause ( 1) of this clause empowers the Commission to determine 
by regulations, the manner in which and the purpose for which the Commission may associate 
with itself , any person whose assistance or advise is required ; 


(ii) Sub -clause ( 3 ) empowers the Commission to determine by regulations , the 
allowances and expenses payable to a person associated with it ; 


( iii) Sub - clause (4 ) empowers the Commission to determine by regulations , the manner 
in which and the purpose for which the Council may associate itself, any person whose 
assistance or advice is required ; 


( iv ) Sub -clause (6 ) empowers the Council to determine by bye -laws, the allowances 
and expenses payable to a person associated with it. 


Clause 27 . — This clause empowers the CentralGovernment to issue directions to the 
Commission , on questions of policy as may be required in performance of its functions. 


Clause 28 . — This clause empowers the Commission to issue directions to the council, 
on questions of policy asmay be required in performance of its functions. 


Clause 32 . — This clause empowers the Central Government to make rules, by 
notification in the Official Gazette, generally for carrying out the purposes of the Act . 


Clause 33 . — This clause empowers the Commission to make regulations, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , with the previous approval of the CentralGovernment, not inconsistent 
with the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder and to provide for all or any 
other matters expressly required or allowed by the Act to be prescribed by regulations. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


581 


Clause 35. — Sub -clause (1) ofthis clause empowers the CentralGovernment to remove 
difficulties, by order published in the OfficialGazette , arising within two years from the date 
of commencement of the Act. 


As the delegation of legislative powers will relate to matter of detail only and is of a 
normal character. 


582 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No . 92 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for payment of compensation to and provision of certain welfare 

measures for the victims of terror attacks. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title and 
extent . 


Definitions . 


1. ( 1) This Actmay be called the Victims of Terrorism (Provision of Compensation and 
Welfare Measures ) Act, 2018 . 

(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a ) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and 

(b ) “ terror attack ” means an attack by a terrorist group operating within or from 
outside the country . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


583 


ze the following welfare menures for to the victims 


3. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Compensation 
CentralGovernment shall pay compensation to and take the following welfare measures for 

of terror 
the victims of terror attack in the followingmanner : 

attack . 
(i) in case of loss of life, 

( a ) an ex gratia grant to the next of kin of the deceased which shall not be 
less than fifteen lakh rupees; 

(b ) financial assistance at such rate , as may be prescribed , to the next of 
kin of the deceased ; and 

( c ) preference in Central Government jobs to the next of kin of the 
deceased ; 
(ii ) in case of serious injury leading to incapacitation , - 

( a ) medical treatment free of cost till full recovery ; and 

(b ) payment of an ex gratia amount to the victim , which shall not be less 
than three lakh rupees ; 

( iii ) in case of minor injuries payment of an ex gratia amount, which shall not be 
less than two lakh rupees; and 

(iv ) in case of damage to the dwelling unit as a result of torching or bombing , 
repair of the dwelling unit , if viable or construction of a new dwelling unit. 

4 . The provisions of this Act and rulesmade thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding Overriding 
anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force . 

effect of the 

Act . 
5 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other Act not in 
law for the time being in force . 

derogation of 
any other law 
for the time 
being in 

force . 
6 . (1 ) The CentralGovernment may, by notification in the OfficialGazette,make rules Power to 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act . 

make rules. 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Section shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days ,which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


584 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The incidents of terror attacks are increasing in many parts of the country. Hundreds 
of innocent persons are being killed in such terrorist attacks. Their lives are shattered as they 
become permanently disabled or die during such attacks . The condition of deceased families 
is miserable as adequate compensation has not been provided to them by the Government. 
Therefore , it is necessary that the Central Government should come forward to pay 
compensation and provide certain othermeasures for the welfare of victimsof terror attacks. 

Hence this Bill. 


RAMESH BIDHURI 


NEW DELHI; 
February 9 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


585 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for compensation to the victimsor dependants of persons 
killed or injured during terror attacks. It also provides for construction of new dwelling units 
in case dwelling units are damaged in the terror attacks. The Bill, therefore , if enacted , will 
involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual 
recurring expenditure of about rupees one thousand crore is likely to be involved . 


A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees five hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 6 of the Bill gives power to the Central Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation 
of legislative power is of a normal character . 


586 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 93 OF 2018 


A Bill to abolish child labour in the country and for matters connected therewith . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1 . (1 ) This Act may be called the Abolition of Child Labour Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India. 

(3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(b) “ child ” means a boy or a girlwho has not attained the age of eighteen years ; 


Definitions. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


587 


(c) “ establishment” includes a household ,shop , commercial establishment, work 
shop , farm or any residential place where commercial activity is involved , residential 
hotel, restaurant, eating -house , theatre or other place of public amusement or 
entertainment; and 


(d ) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3 . Child labour, in any form , in any establishment in the country, is hereby abolished . Abolition of 

child labour. 
4 . Subject to the provisions of section 6 , whoever employs a child in any Punishment . 
establishment, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to 
three years and with fine which may extend to rupees two lakh . 
5 . Any parent or a lawful guardian of a child , who coerces his child into employment, 

Punishment to 
shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and 

parents or 

lawful 
with fine which may extend to rupees fifty thousand . 

guardians for 
coercion . 


6 . ( 1) Any establishment employing children shall remove such children from Closure of an 
employment within a period of six months from the date of coming into force of this Act. organisation / 

establishment 
(2) If , after the expiry of the period specified in sub - section (1), any establishment fails engaging child 
to remove children employed in that establishment, the appropriate Government shall order labou 
closure of such establishment. 


Establishment 
of children 
homes for 
rehabilitation 
of children . 


7 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall establish at least one children home in every 
district for rehabilitation ofchildren found employed in any establishment or collecting rags 
and waste or begging . 

(2 ) The children homes established under sub -section ( 1) shall provide free boarding 
and lodging , education , maintenance and such other facilities to the children , as may be 
prescribed , till they attain the age of eighteen years. 

(3 ) Any child who is found employed in any establishment or collecting rags and 
waste or begging shall immediately be taken into custody by the police and sent to the 
nearest children home. 


8 . The provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder shall have effectnotwithstanding Act to have 
anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the timebeing in force or in overriding 

effect. 
any instrument having effect of law by virtue of any law other than this Act. 

9 . (1) The CentralGovernment may, by notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules Power to 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

make rules. 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect , as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


588 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India has the largest number of child labour in the world . The official figure is fifteen 
million . But the actual number may be much higher. Indian children are the source of cheap 
labour because they can be paid less wages or can be abused without provoking retaliation . 
These children work in industries manufacturing crackers, diamond polishing , glass, 
brassware , carpet weaving ,bangle making, lock making and mica cutting to name just a few . 
A large number of children also work as domestic servants . 

Poverty is cited as a major cause of child labour, but it is not the only determinant. 
Inadequate number of schools or even the expense of providing education leave some of the 
children with practically no option but to work . The attitude of parents also contribute to 
child labour.Compulsory elementary education may help ameliorate this attitude . The problem 
of child labour cannot be eliminated in one stroke . Many countries have enacted laws 
providing for ban on buying products of industries where children are employed . 

Only multi- dimensional strategies including compulsory elementary education , 
eradication of poverty, eradicating parental illiteracy ,making child labour illegal will help in 
achieving this objective. Stringent legal provisions, severe punishment for violation of laws, 
rehabilitation of children already engaged in work have to go along with abolition of child 
labour in the country . Therefore, it is high time that a stringent law for abolition of child 
labour is enacted . 


Hence this Bill . 


RAMESH BIDHURI 


NEW DELHI; 
February 9, 2018 . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


589 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 7 of the Bill provides that the appropriate Government shall establish at least 
one children home in every district for the rehabilitation of children found employed in any 
establishment or collecting rags and waste or begging. The CentralGovernment will have to 
incur expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India for establishment of children homes 
in respectofUnion territories. The State Governments will incur expenditure for establishment 
of children homes in the States from their respective Consolidated Funds. The Bill , therefore, 
if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is likely to involve 
a recurring expenditure of about rupees two hundred crore per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


590 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Bill No. 98 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for issue of health card to citizens living below poverty line for 
availing medical facilities free of cost and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be itenacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth year of the Republic of India as follows: 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


1 . ( 1) This Actmay be called the Provision of Health Card (For Persons Living Below 
Poverty Line ) Act, 2018 . 

(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
( 3 ) It shall come into force at once . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


591 


Definitions. 


2 . In this Act unless the context otherwise requires , 

(a) “ medical store” means a registered pharmacy/drug store ; 

(b ) “ person living below poverty line” means a person , whose annual income 
from all sources is less than rupees fifty thousand ; and 

( c) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 


3 . The CentralGovernment shall formulate a compulsory health insurance scheme for Formulation 
persons living below poverty line. 

of 
compulsory 
health 
insurance 
scheme. 


4 . ( 1) The Central Government shall , through the State Government or the Union Insuance of 
territory Administration , as the case may be , issue a health card to every citizen living below health cards to 

persons living 
poverty line. 

below poverty 
(2 ) The health card shall contain the details such as name and age, address , details of line. 
family members, annual income and such other information asmay be prescribed . 


(3 ) the compulsory health insurance schememade under this Act shall cover head of 
the family, his spouse , dependent parents and dependent children . 

5. Any citizen who is entitled to a health card but has not been issued the same, may Citizens to 
approach the district administration , which shall , after necessary verification , issue the health approach 
card . 

district 
administration 
for non 
issuance of 
health card . 


6 . (1 ) Any citizen , who has been issued a health card , may approach any hospital, Right of health 
including a privately run hospital for treatment of self or any of his family members ,whose cardholders to 

get treatment 
name has been included in the health card . 

from hospitals . 
( 2 ) The hospital shall not charge any fees from the cardholder for his treatment or 
treatment of any member of his family and shall also provide the prescribed medicines free of 
cost: 


Provided that where medicines are unavailable in the hospital, it shall be procured from 
a medical store by the Hospital and made available to the citizens within the stipulated time 
as may be prescribed . 


(3 ) The hospital shall make entires in the health card regarding the total expenditure 
incurred by it in the treatment of the cardholder or his family members and send a copy of the 
detailed expenses to the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 

7 . The total expenditure on the treatment in respect of a health cardholder and his Limit of 
family members shall not excced rupees twenty - five thousand per year : 

expenditure 

on the 
Provided that the cardholder may submit an application in the form as may be prescribed treatment of 
to the Central Government for enhancing the limit in case of any critical illness and the cardh 
Central Government may allow an enhanced expenditure for the treatment of the particular 
disease . 


cardholders . 


8 . Subject to the provisions of section 7 , no hospital shall refuse treatment of any Hospitals not 
cardholder, on the ground that the cardholder has not made any advance deposit with the to refuse 

treatment to 
hospital for treatment. 

cardholders. 
9 . The hospital shallmake its claim for reimbursement of expenses in connection with Procedure for 
treatment of a cardholder or a member of his family to the CentralGovernment in such manner reimbursement. 
as may be prescribed . 


592 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Reimbursement 
to be made 
within a 
month . 


10 . The Central Government on receipt of a claim under section 9 shall process the 
same and reimburse the expense within a month of receipt of the claim to the hospital 
concerned. 


Penalty for 
violation . 


Power to 
make rules. 


11 . If any hospital refuses to treat any cardholder or member of his family without any 
valid reason , the Central Government shall issue directions for cancellation of the licence of 
the hospital. 

12 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules 
for carrying out the provisions of this Act . 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


593 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Our country is facing the problem of shortage ofmanpower in the health sector. Below 
Poverty Line sectors cannot afford to seek any treatment from the private hospitals in our 
country due to high fees. The Governmenthospitals and Health Centres either lack medicine 
stock or have absentee doctors , especially in the rural areas. Healthcare on the other hand is 
extremely expensive in private sectors . Hence, high percentages of the population here 
cannot afford healthcare in private hospitals . 

India, being a welfare State, care has to be taken by the Government for the under 
privileged sections of the society. It is proposed to provide that persons living below poverty 
line will be allowed to take free treatment in hospitals including private hospital. 


Hence this Bill. 


SHRIKANTE . SHINDE 


NEW DELHI; 
February 15 , 2018 . 


594 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides for a health insurance scheme for all persons living below 
poverty line. Clause 4 provides for issuance of health cards to all persons living below 
poverty line to enable them to take treatment in hospitals . Clause 10 provides for reimbursement 
of expenses by the Central Government to the hospital concerned . 

The Bill , therefore, if enacted ,would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund 
of India. It is likely to involve a recurring expenditure of about rupees Five hundred crore per 
annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure of aboutrupees one thousand crore will also be involved 
for issuing health cards from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 12 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


595 


Bill No . 99 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the compulsory maintenance of food and potable water 
supplies for human consumption and fodder for the livestock of the farmers in 
drought affected areas by the Union Government with the co -operation of 

the Government of the concerned State and for matters 

connected therewith or incidental thereto . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India 
as follows: 


1. (1) This Act may be called the Maintenance of Food , Potable Water and Fodder Short title , 
Supplies in Drought Affected Areas Act, 2018 . 

extent and 

commencement 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
(3 ) It shall come into force with immediate effect. 


596 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


Definitions. 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State , the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(b ) " drought affected area " means any area situated in any part of the country 
which has got below normal rainfall in any season of a calendar year and which in the 
opinion of the Central Government has been affected by drought and declared , by 
notification in the OfficialGazette , to be a drought affected area for such period as may 
be specified in the notification ; 

( c) " food " includes cereals such as wheat, maize , barley etc. rice , pulses and 
edible oils and fuel for cooking; 

(d ) " fodder" includes the dry and green fodder generally fed to the livestock by 
the farmers and others; and 

(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 
3 . The Central Government shall, in consultation with the State Government in whose 
jurisdiction the drought affected area falls, maintain uninterrupted food supplies in such area 
for the inhabitants in such manner and for such time as may be prescribed . 


Compulsory 
maintenance 
of food 
supplies in 
drought 
affected areas . 


Appropriate 
Government 
to maintain 
supply of 
potable water 
in drought 
affected areas. 


4 . The appropriate Governmentshall maintain adequate supply of potable water through 
tankers or through other means as itmay consider appropriate in the drought affected area 
for such period as may be prescribed. 


Appropriate 
Compulsory 
maintenance 
of fodder 
supply in 
drought 
affected areas. 


5 . The appropriate Government shall maintain adequate supplies of fodder in a drought 
affected area by procuring fodder from other States in such manner and for such period as 
may be prescribed . 


Funds to be 
provided by 
the Central 
Government. 


6 . The CentralGovernment shall , after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in 
this behalf , provide, from time to time, adequate funds for carrying out the purpose of this 
Act. 


Savings. 


Power to 
make rules. 


7 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other 
law for the timebeing in force . 

8 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay,by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


597 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Drought in India has resulted in millions of deaths over the course of the 18th , 19th and 
20th centuries. Indian agriculture is heavily dependent on the climate e. g. a favourable 
south -west summer monsoon is critical in securing water for irrigation of crops. In some 
parts of the country , the failure of the monsoons result in water shortage thereby causing 
below -average crop yeilds. This is evident in major drought-prone regions such as southern 
and eastern Maharashtra, northern Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh , Odisha, Gujarat, Telangana , 
Rajasthan , Bihar and Jharkhand which play as havoc in such areas. 

The Palamu division in Bihar and Kalahandi in Odisha have become synonymous with 
drought. It has been observed that during the drought period the inhabitants do not have 
food to eat and water to drink for their survival resulting in their exodus . In many areas 
starvation deaths also occur. The worst sufferers in such time are the mute livestock . People 
leave them stray to fend for themselves and without fodder and water they ultimately die . 
The Governments at the Centre and State provide some sort of relief to the people of such 
areas but the mute animals remain uncared for. It is , therefore , necessary that the supply of 
food and potable water and also the fodder be maintained on priority and it should remain 
uninterrupted so that the people do not leave such places and the livestock too get its fodder 
and water for its survival. 


Hence this Bill. 


SHRIKANT E . SHINDE 


New Delhi; 
February 15 , 2018 . 


598 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIAEXTRAORDINARY 


[ PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill provides that the CentralGovernment shall maintain uninterrupted 
food supplies in drought affected areas . Clause 4 provides that appropriate Government 
shall maintain adequate supply of potable water in drought affected areas . Clause 5 provides 
that appropriate Government shall provide adequate supplies of fodder in drought affected 
areas . Clause 6 provides that the Central Government shall provide adequate funds for the 
implementation of the Bill. The Bill, therefore, if enacted and brought into operation , will 
involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees 
one thousand crores would be involved as recurring expenditure per annum from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non recurring expenditure of rupees five hundred crores is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 8 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of this Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


599 


Bill No. 94 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the promotion of use of ocean thermal energy to reduce carbon 
emission , protect environment and substitute traditional electricity generation 
methods of fossil fuel burning and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows : 
1 . (1) This Actmay be called the Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Act, 2018 . 
(2) It extends to the whole of India . 
( 3) It shall come into force at once. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " appropriate Government" means in case of a State , the Government of that 
State and in all other cases , the Central Government; 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencements. 


Definitions. 


600 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(b ) " Authority " means the National Ocean Thermal Energy Authority of India 
constituted under section 3 ; 

(c) "Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion " or "OTEC " means a process used for 
production of electricity by using the temperature difference between deep ocean 
water and warm tropical surface water; and 


(d ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act. 


Establishment 
of National 
Ocean 
Thermal 
Energy 
Authority of 
India . 


3. ( 1 ) The Central Government shall, as soon as may be ,by notification in the Official 
Gazette , establish an Authority to be called the NationalOcean Thermal Energy Authority of 
India for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) The head office of the Authority shall be at New Delhi and the Authority may 
establish offices at such other places in the country as it may deem necessary for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act. 
( 3 ) The Authority shall consist of — 

( a ) a Chairperson , who shall be an expert scientist having adequate knowledge 
and professional experience in the field of OTEC technology ; 


(b ) one Deputy Chairperson with such qualifications as may be prescribed ; 

(c ) three members of Parliament of whom two shall be from the House of the 
People and one from the Council of States to be nominated by the respective Presiding 
Officers of the Houses concerned ; 

( d ) five members to represent the Union Ministries of Environment, Forests and 
Climate Change , Science and Technology, New and Renewable Energy, Planning and 
Finance , respectively ; 

(e ) fourmembers to represent the non -Governmental Organisations working for 
the protection of environment and promotion of ocean thermal energy in the country ; 
and 

(f) fourmembers to be nominated by the Governments of the States to be rotated 
amongst the States in alphabetical order. 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and other terms and conditions of service of 
office of the Chairperson , Deputy Chairperson and members of the Authority and the 
procedure to be followed in the discharge of the functions of the Authority shall be such , as 
may be prescribed . 

(5 ) The Authority shall have a secretariat with such officers and members of staff 
and with such terms and conditions of services as may be prescribed , from time to 
time. 


Functions of 
the Authority . 


4 . ( 1) Subject to any guidelines issued by the CentralGovernment under the provisions 
of this Act, the Authority shall perform and undertake such special steps in close co -ordination 
with concerned Ministries, Departments and Public Sector Enterprises of the Central and 
State Governments for rapid and accelerated promotion and development of ocean thermal 
energy throughout the country as it may deem necessary and expedient to do so for the 
promotion of ocean thermal energy conversion . 

(2 ) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, the Authority 
shall , — 


(a ) formulate ocean thermal energy conversion policy , its goals and execution 
plan ; 

(b ) develop indicative standards of ocean thermal energy conversion ; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


601 


(c ) support and encourage research and development through Government and 
private sector participation involving all major Research laboratories ; 

(d ) facilitate infrastructure development of ocean thermal energy conversion in 
coastal areas ; 


( e ) suggest educational and other policy initiatives for ocean thermal energy 
conversion ; 

(f) facilitate quick technology transfer and adoption of ocean thermal energy 
conversion ; and 

(g ) such other steps as the appropriate Government may deem necessary . 
5 . ( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the timebeing in force , Miscellaneous 
the appropriate Government shall in consultation with the Authority make it compulsory for Provisions . 
every coastal city village including Government establishments to , 

( a ) use the OTEC technology for electrification in all coastal buildings, homes 
and villages; 

(b )make it mandatory for electricity utilities to purchase electricity from ocean 
thermal energy sources; 

(c) reserve adequate resources for setting up of ocean thermal energy conversion 
projects ; 

(d ) take such other steps as the appropriate Government may deem 
necessary . 


( 2 ) The appropriate Government shall , as soon as may be, identify the exploitable 
sources of ocean thermal energy in their respective territorial jurisdictions and send project 
report thereon to the Authority which shall depute a team of experts to verify and assess the 
possibility of exploiting ocean thermal energy sources . 

( 3 ) The Authority shall on the basis of the report submitted by the team of experts 
work out the estimated expenditure on the project and recommend to the Central Government 
regarding implementation of the projects . 

6 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law in Central 
this behalf , pay to the Authority in each financial year such sums as may be considered Government 
necessary and adequate for the performance of the functions of the Authority under this to provide 
Act. 


funds . 


7 . The Authority shall prepare once in every calendar year in such form and at such Annual 
time as may be prescribed an Annual Report giving a true and full account of its activities Report. 
during the previous year and copies thereof shall be forwarded to the President of India who 
shall cause the same to be laid before both the Houses of Parliament. 


8 . ( 1 ) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may , by order published in the Official Gazette , make such provisions, not remove 
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for 

difficulties. 
removing the difficulty : 

Provided that no such order shall be made the expiry of the period of two years from 
the date of the commencement of this Act. 

( 2) Every order made under this section shall as soon as may be after it is made , be laid 
before both the Houses of Parliament. 


9 . ( 1) The Central Governmentmay ,by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules to Power to 
carry out the provisions of this Act. 

make rules. 


(2 ) Every rule made under this section shall be laid , as soon asmay be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament , while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which 


602 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions and if, before the 
expiry of the sessions immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule 
should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of 
no effect , as the case may be so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall be 
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


603 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC ) ismore than just a technology that produces 
clean energy. With OTEC , the goal is to create a sustainable future using the world s most 
abundant resource -our oceans . 

Due to the unlimited availability of the ocean s thermal resource — the fuel that powers 
OTEC — this technology is built to produce clean energy 24 hours a day, 7 days week . This 
provides a great advantage over intermittent (albeit important) renewable technologies such 
as solar and wind . 

OTEC also can shrug off the storage problems that are often associated with clean 
energy. Due to its ability to produce a range of secondary services, the surplus energy 
generated by an OTEC plantcan be diverted to power desalination plants ( removing salt and 
other minerals to produce drinking water ). This flexibility ensures that OTEC produced 
energy never goes to waste. Another major competitive benefit of OTEC is its range of 
secondary services. Besides producing electricity and fresh drinking water,OTEC can support 
agriculture and aquaculture industries, reducing local demand on water supplies. It can also 
slash costs of air conditioning in tropical regions. By using the temperature differential 
between warm ocean surface water and cold deep water as a renewable energy source ,OTEC 
can generate two humanity s most fundamental needs— clean drinking water and renewable 
base load (24x7) energy . Each OTEC plant is capable of producing voluminous amounts of 
drinkable water (a 10 -MW OTEC plant can produce as much as 75 million litres of fresh 
drinking water a day ). Thus, the technology holds great potential formeeting global domestic 
and agricultural freshwater demands both now and in the future . More than seventy per 
cent. of the earth s surface is covered by water, and over eighty per cent. of the sun s energy 
is stored within surface waters — the equivalent of 4 ,000 times the energy used in the world 
per day. In just one 24 - hours period , tropical ocean waters absorb solar radiation equal to the 
energy produced by 250 billion of oil. 

OTEC s ability to help reduce our dependence on fossil fuels — one of the largest 
human - induce contributors to climate change — is enormous. Just one 10 -MW OTEC plant 
has been estimated to provide reliable clean energy for approximately 10 ,000 people and to 
replace the burning of 50,000 barrels of oil and release of 80 ,000 tons of carbon dioxide (CO ) 
per year into the atmosphere . OTEC plants therefore may play a huge role in helping global 
communities fightpollution -related climate change . 

OTEC can also use deep water as a cooling agent for environmentally friendly air 
conditioning, a system known as Seawater Air Conditioner (SWAC ). To replace traditional 
electric chillers and chemicals for cooling buildings, OTEC plants use cold water from deep 
oceans and lakes. Their installation into airports , medical centers and holiday resorts can 
reduce electricity usageby up to ninety per cent. compared to conventional systems, offering 
enormous reductions in carbon emissions . 

OTEC s unique symbiosis between clean baseload renewable energy and potable 
water production is a natural fit. The combination addresses existing global factors that 
could precipitate a humanitarian crisis: the growing globalneed for potable water, the lack of 
available freshwater sources, the increased concentration of populations in coastal regions, 
and rising energy prices.Keeping all the benefits in view , China has recently installed world s 
largest floating OTEC plant. Many countries are already in ways to install OTEC plants . In 
India s perspective , there is tremendous scope for the energy from the ocean as India has a 
long coastline of about 7500 kilometer and about 1200 islands in Bay of Bengal and Arabian 
Sea including Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the Lakshadweep Islands. 

The Bill ,therefore , seeks to constitute a National Ocean ThermalEnergy Commission 
for the rapid and accelerated promotion and development ofOcean Thermal Energy in the country . 

Hence, this Bill 


SHRIKANTE . SHINDE 


NEW DELHI; 
February 15 , 2018 . 


604 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for the establishment of the National Ocean Thermal 
Authority of India. Clause 5 makes it compulsory for every CentralGovernment establishment 
to take measures for using ocean thermal energy by carrying out appropriate changes . 
Clause 6 of the Bill makes it obligatory for the Central Government to provide necessary 
funds for the purpose of the Bill. The Bill , therefore , if enacted and brought into operation 
will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of 
rupees one hundred crore may be involved as recurring expenditure per annum . 

A non -recurring expenditure to the tune of rupees one thousand crore may also involve 
from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 9 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of this Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


605 


Bill No. 87 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows : 


1 . ( 1) This Act may be called the Code of Criminal Procedure ( Amendment) 
Act, 2018 . 


Short title and 


commencement. 


2 of 1974 . 


( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 

2 . In the First Schedule to the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1973 , under the heading 
" 1. — OFFENCES UNDER THE INDIAN PENAL CODE ” , for the entries relating to 
section 354D , the following entries shall be substituted , namely : 


A 
Amendment 
of the First 
Schedule . 


2 


3 


“ 354D Stalking 


Imprisonment up to 3 years and with 
fine with for first conviction . 


Cognizable Non 

bailable 


Any 
Magistrate 


Imprisonment up to 5 years and with 
fine for second or subsequent 
conviction . 


Cognizable Non 

bailable 


Any 
Magistrate” . 


606 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


In the aftermath of the brutal gang rape and murder of December, 2012 , Justice Verma 
Committee was constituted to recommend amendments to the Criminal Law so as to provide 
for fast track trial and enhanced punishment for criminals accused of committing sexual 
assault againstwomen . The Committee comprehensively expanded the list of crimes against 
women and brought stalkingunder the ambit of Indian Penal Code. The Committee recognized 
stalking as a crime and recommended it to be made a non -bailable offense. But in contrast to 
the Committee recommendations, in the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, enacted 
subsequently , the first offense of stalking was made bailable while any subsequent offense 
wasmade non -bailable . 


A bailable provision in the statute for stalking has massively diluted the deterrence . It 
allows the accused to obtain bail without any serious scrutiny often putting the victim at 
further risk of harassments and assaults . As per National Crime Record Bureau , over eighty 
per cent of the people accused of stalking are given bail before even the chargesheet is filed . 
At the same time, cases of stalking continue to rise in the country with 7132 cases registered 
in 2016 followed by 6266 in 2015 and 4699 in 2014 . 

Hence it is high time that concerns surrounding stalking be addressed urgently . In this 
regard , the Bill seeks to make stalking a non -bailable offense in line with the Justice Verma 
Committee recommendations . 


na 


Hence , this Bill . 


RAJENDRA AGRAWAL 


NEW DELHI; 
February 16 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


607 


Bill No . 65 OF 2018 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 


Short title . 
1. This Act may be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018. 

2 . In article 75 of the Constitution , in clause (1A ), the following proviso shall be added Amendment 
at the end , namely : 

of article 75 . 
“ Provided that at least one -third of the total number ofMinisters in the Council 
of Ministers shall be women .” . 

3. In article 164 of the Constitution , in clause ( 1A ), before the existing provisos, the Amendment 
following proviso shall be inserted , namely : 

of article 164. 
“ Provided that at least one - third of the total number of Ministers in the Council 
of Ministers shall be women .” . 


608 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Amendment 
of article 
239AA . 


4 . In article 239AA of the Constitution , in clause (4 ), before the existing proviso , the 
following proviso shall be inserted , namely : 

“ Provided that at least one- third of the total number ofMinisters in the Council 
of Ministers shall be women .” . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


609 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Women represent almost half of the country s population but unfortunately have a 
marginal proportion in influential and decision making roles of Government, both at the 
Union and at the State level. Although our Constitution has guaranteed equal opportunities 
for women in all walks of life through the fundamental right to equality, yet women s visibility 
in the power structure is severely limited . This imbalance is primarily because of the prevalent 
misogynistic notions of gender perpetuated by the society . 

To have a meaningful democracy, allmembers of the society should have equal access 
to power. Thus, it is urgently required to redress the gender based inequality and create a 
level playing field for women . For an inclusive development of the nation , the widespread 
gender gap must be bridged and female presence in powerful influence wielding institutions 
be encouraged . Therefore, to achieve the said objective , the Bill makes it mandatory that at 
least one -third of the total number of Ministers in the Council of Ministers should be women . 

Hence ,this Bill . 


RAJENDRA AGRAWAL 


NEW DELHI; 
February 15 , 2018 . 


610 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Bill No. 67 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for compulsory teaching of environmental education in all educa 

tional institutions and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows : 
Short title and 1. ( 1) This Actmay be called the Compulsory Teaching of Environmental Education in 
commencement. Educational Institutions Act, 2018 . 


( 2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Governmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


611 


Definitions . 


2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires - 

(a ) " Advisory Council" means the Advisory Council for Environmental Education 
constituted under section 6 ; 

(b ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases , the Central Government; 


(c) " educational institution " means a primary or a middle or a secondary or a 
senior secondary level school imparting education to children , or any college , institute 
or university imparting higher education recognized by the Government or established 
under an Act of the Central Government or a State Government, by whatever name 
such institution is called ; 

(d ) " environmental education " means education through which individuals gain 
awareness of their environment and acquire knowledge , skills and values to enable 
them to act individually as well as collectively to solve presentand future environmental 
problems; and 


(e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act . 


3 . From such date, as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Compulsory 
Gazette , specify, environmental education shall be taught as a compulsory subject in all teaching of 
educational institutions from such class onwards as may be determined by the Central education . 

environmental 
Government on recommendation of the Advisory Council . 


4 . The appropriate Government shall , immediately after issuance of the notification 
under section 3, issue directions for compulsory teaching of environmental education in all 
educational institutions within its jurisdiction . 


Appropriate 
Government 
to issue 
directions for 
compulsory 
teaching of 
environmental 
education . 


5 . Subject to such matters as may be prescribed , the appropriate Government shall Appointment 

of teachers for 
ensure appointmentofsuch number of teachers with such qualifications, as may be specified , 

imparting 
for teaching environmental education in educational institutions . 

environmental 
education . 


6 . ( 1 ) The CentralGovernment shall, within three months of the coming into force of Constitution 
this Act, by notification in the Official Gazette , constitute an Advisory Council for 

of Advisory 

Council for 
Environmental Education . 

Environmental 

Education . 
(2 ) The Advisory Council shall consist of such number of persons, having special 
knowledge or practical experience in the field of environmental education , as the Central 
Governmentmay deem fit. 
7. The Advisory Council shall perform the following functions, namely: 

Functions of 

the Advisory 
( a ) recommend to the Central Government the syllabus of environmental Council. 
education for each standard at the school and university level; 


(b ) recommend to the Central Government the class from which onwards 
environmental education shall be taught in educational institutions ; 


(c ) recommend to the appropriate Government the qualifications of teachers to 
be appointed in educational institutions for teaching environmental education ; 

(d ) recommend to the appropriate Government the institutions which may be 
given recognition for training teachers in environmental education for the purpose of 
their appointment in educational institutions; and 


612 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(e ) co -ordinate with the appropriate Governmentand the educational institution 
authorities with a view to ensuring effective implementation of the provisions of this 
Act. 


Application of 
Act on 
minority 
educational 
institutions in 
certain 
situation . 


8 . Nothwithstanding anything contained in this Act , the provisions of this Act shall 
apply to minority institutions only if the management of such institutions convey to the 
appropriate Government their willingness to include the teaching of environmental education 
textbooks in their school curriculum . 


9 . The appropriate Government shall derecognize educational institutions, which does 
not comply with the provisions of section 4 , after giving such institution a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard . 


Derecognition 
of educational 
institutions 
for non 
compliance of 
the provisions 
of this Act. 
Central 
Government 
to provide 
fund . 


10. The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliamentby law 
in this behalf , provide adequate funds to the State Governments for carrying out the purposes 
of this Act. 


Overriding 

the 
Act . 


11. The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent 
therewith contained in any other law for the timebeing in force . 


Power to 
make rules . 


12 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act . 

(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


613 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


One of the biggest worries grappling the world today is environmental degradation . 
Fast paced urbanization , industrialization and deforestation have led to enormous levels of 
environmental pollution and created wide imbalances in the ecology . 

Education is an important instrument through which individuals could be imparted the 
awareness and consciousness to address the concerns surrounding our environment and to 
act individually as well as collectively to solve the present and future environmental issues . 

The Honourable Supreme Court of India in its directive of 1991 had made it compulsory 
for environment education to be included in the school and college curricula . But it has been 
observed that the Supreme Court s directive has not been implemented effectively so far. 

The Bill, therefore , seeks to make it mandatory for environmental education to be 
taught as a compulsory subject at all levels of education . 

Hence , this Bill . 


NEW DELHI; 


RAJENDRA AGRAWAL 


February 16 , 2018 . 


614 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 5 of the Bill provides for appointment of environment education teachers in all 
schools. Clause 6 provides for constitution of Advisory Council for environment education 
by the Central Government. Clause 10 provides for payment of adequate funds to the States 
for carrying out the purpose of the Act. The Bill , therefore , if enacted , would involve 
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . Atthis stage , it is not possible to give exact 
estimate of expenditure, both recurring and non -recurring, which will be involved from the 
consolidated Fund of India , if the Bill is enacted into a law . However, it is estimated that a 
recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore will be involved per annum from the 
Consolidated Fund of India . 


A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees one hundred crore is also likely to be 
involved 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 12 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purpose of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


615 


Bill No . 86 OF 2018 


Short title and 
extent. 


A Bill to provide for the welfare of children and for matters connected therewith . 
Be itenacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year ofthe Republic of India as follows: 
1. ( 1) This Act may be called the Child Welfare Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 

2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, child means a person who has 
not completed the age of fifteen years . 

3. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the timebeing in force ,no 
child shall be employed by any person for any work in any manner. 


Definition . 


Prohibition of 
child 
employment. 


616 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Establishment 
of juvenile 
homes . 


4 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall establish adequate number of juvenile homes with 
all basic amenities for the welfare of children in every district of the country . 

(2 ) Any child who is abandoned , orphan, destitute , neglected or engaged in any job , 
occupation or begging shall be admitted to the juvenile homes set up under sub -section ( 1) . 

5. ( 1) Every child who is admitted into the juvenile home shall be entitled to the 
following facilities free of cost, — 

( a ) accommodation , food and clothing ; 


Facilities to be 
provided to 
the children in 
juvenile 
homes. 


(b ) education including higher and technical education , and 

(c) medical assistance. 
(2 ) Every child shall also be entitled to such other facilities as are necessary for his all 
round development. 

6 . The Central Government shallmake provisions of reservation in posts and services 
under its control for children admitted to juvenile homes on attaining the age of eighteen 
years . 


Provision for 
reservation in 
posts and 
services under 
Central 
Government. 


Power to 
make rules . 


7 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment may ,by notification in the Official Gazette ,make rules 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 


(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made , 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be 
of no effect , as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


617 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


A large number of children are forced by their parents to do menial labour, in order to 
sustain their livelihood . Due to lack of proper diet and healthcare , these children become 
victims of a number of diseases. Some of them even succumb to premature death . Many of 
these children are highly talented . But due to lack of proper education and other opportunities, 
their talent goes waste . 


Children are the future of a country . It is , therefore , the responsibility of theGovernment 
to provide opportunities of all -round development to every child and also to provide protection 
against exploitation . Thus, it is proposed to bring in a legislation for the welfare and protection 
of children against exploitation . 

Hence, this Bill. 


JUGAL KISHORE SHARMA 


NEW DELHI; 
February 22 , 2018 . 


618 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for setting up of adequate number of juvenile homes with 
all basic amenities for the welfare of children in every district of the country by the Central 
Government. Clause 5 provides for free of cost food , accommodation , clothing , education 
and medical facilities to the children in juvenile homes. The Bill , therefore, if enacted , will 
involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India . It is estimated that an annual 
recurring expenditure of about rupees fifty crore is likely to be involved . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees five crore is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 7 of the Bill empowers the Central Governmentto make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


619 


Bill No. 112 OF 2018 


Short title. 


A Bill further to amend the Constitution of India . 
Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
1. This Actmay be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

2 . In the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution , existing entries 10 to 22 shall be 
renumbered as entries 11 to 23, respectively and before entry 11 as so renumbered , the 
following entry shallbe inserted , namely : 

“ 10 .Magahi.” . 


de comunication eining certies co 2 soal de 


Amendment of 
the Eighth 
Schedule. 


esta 


620 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The Magahi language also known as Magadhi is a language widely spoken in the 
Bihar- Jharkhand region and has more than seventeen million speakers . The language has 
been derived from the ancient Magadhi Prakrit and is also believed to be the language 
spoken by Gautama Buddha. Magahi also has the distinction of being the official language 
of the court of the Mauryans in which edicts of the king Ashoka were composed . Also 
Magahi, having its own script called “Kaithi’, was used as official language at that time and 
many legal, administrative and private records pertaining to the period have been preserved 
by the people even to this day. 

The land ofMagadh holds a precious position in the history of ancient India and had 
been workplace of a number of great personalities including Lord Buddha and Mahavira . 
Further, Pali language, a language similar to Magahi is already been taught in the Magadh 
University . Unfortunately, this precious language, despite being spoken by a large number 
of persons, being the language of Lord Buddha himself and having had the status of rajbhasha 
during the reign of emperor Ashoka, has not been recognized as one of the languages under 
the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution of India . Therefore, it is need of the hour to provide 
the due recognition to the language through its inclusion in the Eighth Schedule to the 
Constitution . 

Hence , this Bill . 


SUSHIL KUMAR SINGH 


NEW DELHI; 
March 7 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


621 


Bill No . 118 OF 2018 


A Bill to confer a right on indebted farmers to obtain an immediate one- time complete 
waiver of outstanding loan ; right to obtain institutional credit ; protection of debt 
traped farmers suffering from natural disasters or distress and constitution 
of a National Farmers Distress and Disaster Relief Commission and 
State Farmers Distress and Disaster Relief Commissions with 

power to pass awards and recommend appropriate 
measures for the relief to farmers in distress and 
for matters connected therewith or 

incidental thereto . 


WHEREAS the nation is indebted to farmers for ensuring food security and food 
sovereignty for the nation ; 

AND WHEREAS thousands of farmers are committing suicide every year across the 
nation due to agrarian distress and related indebtedness adding up to more than three lakh 
farmers suicide in the past twenty years; 

AND WHEREAS the Government is obligated to prevent farmer suicides and distress 
under article 21 of the Constitution , particularly as the causes of farmers suicide are related 
to Government policies; 


622 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


- 


AND WHEREAS safeguarding the right to livelihood is an essential part of the right to life 
under Article 21 of the Constitution ; 

AND WHEREAS farm commodity prices have been kept low as a policy measure with 
several regulations on marketing, and the recommendation of the National Farmers 
Commission to fix the minimum support prices with at least fifty per cent. profit margin over 
and above the comprehensive cost of cultivation has not been implemented for the past 
twelve years , thus adversely affecting farmers net returns from agriculture reflected in official 
surveys with a vast majority of farmers having negative net returns, thereby debts being 
accumulated by farmers ; 

AND WHEREAS the successive Governments have not effectively fulfilled their 
responsibilities to provide comprehensive institutional credit facilities, to provide due 
recognition and full inclusion to many categories of cultivators including landless and lessee 
cultivators, women farmers and tribal farmers , to execute effective risk insurance and disaster 
relief measures , to keep input prices in check , to create large scale shift from high external 
input agriculture to sustainable agriculture, and to build infrastructure, all of which have in 
turn resulted in losses for farmers leading to debt; 

AND WHEREAS many districts in the country are afflicted by severe distress due to the 
agrarian crisis, and it ruined many farmers financially and led to suicides; 

AND WHEREAS several suits and other proceedings have been filed in courts, tribunals 
and before other authorities for the recovery of debts accrued from farmers, accompanied by 
harassment and defamation in public by creditors ; 

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to provide relief to the farmers who are in distress due to 
indebtedness by providing a one-time immediate and complete loan waiver to all farmers; 

AND WHEREAS it is necessary to reform the institutional credit support system to prevent 
a future debt trap for the farmers,by providing access to institutional credit as a right to all 
categories of farmers, and by providing protection from debt trap to farmers suffering from 
losses due to disasters and distress; 

AND WHEREAS the SupremeCourt has provided guidance for harmonisation of entry 45 
of List I of the Seventh Schedule (Union List) and entry 30 of List II of the Seventh Schedule 
( State List ); 


Short title, 
extent and 
commencement. 


AND WHEREAS the conditions of agrarian crisis and indebtedness of farmers as well as 
increasing incidence of natural calamities due to climate change are common in various 
States across the nation and require to be addressed at the National level, with resource 
support from the Centre and implementation at both the national and State levels. 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth year of the Republic of India, as follows: 

CHAPTERI 

PRELIMINARY 
1 . ( 1) This Actmay be called the Farmers Freedom from Indebtedness Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 
(3) It shall come into force within one month from the date of assent by the President. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires , - 

(a ) " agriculture " includes cultivation of seasonal and annual crops, horticulture, 
farming and growing of medicinal plants, crops and intercrops, plantation crops like 
coconut, arecanut, vanilla and pepper, tuber crops like tapioca , fruits, vegetables, milk 
production , gathering of minor forest produce , fishing, production of flowers, grass, 
fodder grass and trees or any kind of cultivation of soil, raising nursery, breeding and 
keeping of livestock including fish and mussels , bees , silkworm , poultry , duck , cattle 
or pigs or any other primary production activity; 


Definitions . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


623 


(b ) " agricultural commodity " means all cereals, millets , pulses, oilseeds , fibre 
crops, horticulture crops of fruits and vegetables, plantation crops, spice crops, tuber 
crops , medicinal plants , all varieties of milk , minor forest produce , flowers, grass, 
fodder grass and tree produce, nursery produce , all livestock and animal products like 
meat, eggs and poultry , honey, silkworm cocoons , all fishery produce like fish mussel, 
marine fish and freshwater aquatic produce , and all such other primary produce and 
agricultural commodity with all its cognate expressions; 

(c) " agricultural expert" includes a person with atleast fifteen years of experience 
of policy making ormanagement or field work in agriculture -related sectors including 
rural banking services for agriculture ; 

(d ) " appropriate Government" means in the case of a State the Government of 
that State and in all other cases , the Central Government; 

(e ) " debt" means any liability , including that incurred for agricultural production , 
including purchase and rearing of cattle and other livestock improvement of production 
infrastructure and services ( cattleshed , pump house , farm machinery and equipment, 
processing and value addition ), basic needs of the household like survival, health and 
education , whether secured or unsecured , due from a farmer , whether payable under a 
contract or under a decree or order of any Court or Tribunal or otherwise , and includes 
any sum payable to — 

(i) an institutional creditor; or 

(ii) a private creditor, 
but does not include any loan amount taken by the farmer for commercial purposes or 
luxury other than agricultural and allied purposes ; 

(f) " district " means a revenue district; 

(g ) " distress affected area " means revenue district or districts or part thereof in 
any State or several States or the entire country as declared by theGovernment under 
sections 8 and 19 on the recommendations of the National Commission or a State 
Commission for the purpose of this Act, where farmers are affected by acute distress 
due to reasons as the case may be , including natural calamities, failure of crop due to 
extensive pest or disease attack , widespread supply of adulterated or spurious inputs , 
extensive destruction by wild animals , price crash and such other reasons ; 

(h ) " distress affected crop " means any crop or crops of any State or the entire 
country , as declared by the Government under sections 9 and 20 on therecommendation 
of theNational Commission or a State Commission , as the case may be, for the purpose 
of this Act including natural calamities, destruction by wild animals, price crash , failure 
of crop due to reasons including natural calamities, failure of crop due to extensive 
pest or disease attack , widespread supply of adulterated or spurious inputs, extensive 
destruction by wild animals, price crash , and such other reasons ; 

(i) " distress affected farmer" means a farmer declared as such by the Commission 
(National or State ) or any farmer who is practicing agriculture in a distress affected area 
as declared by the Commission or who is cultivating a distress affected crop as declared 
by Commission ; 

(1) " farmer " means a person actively engaged in the economic and / or livelihood 
activity of growing crops or producing other primary agricultural commodities with or 
without land ownership , including all agricultural operational holders, cultivators , 
sharecroppers , tenants, lessee cultivators , adivasi farmers, tribal farmers , agricultural 
labourers, poultry and livestock rearers, fisherpeople , beekeepers, pastoralists , non 
corporate planters of plantation crops and planting labourers, forest- gatherers , women 
farmers and self-help groups doing -cultivation on collectively owned or leased - in 
land ; 


624 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(k ) " financial institution " means any financial institution constituted by or under 
any Central Act or State Act for the time being in force and registered with the 
Government, including non - banking financial institution ; 

(1) " institutional creditor" means Scheduled Banks in the public and private 
sector, Regional Rural Banks, Co -operative Societies , Non -Banking Financial 
Companies , Micro - Finance Institutions and includes the State Bank of India or any 
Subsidiary Bank within the meaning of clause (k ) of section 2 of the State Bank of 
India (Subsidiary Bank ) Act, 1959 or any other Scheduled Bank ; 

(m ) " interest" means any amount payable in excess of the principal amount 
borrowed or pecuniary obligation incurred by whatsoever name such amountmay be 
called , whether the same is expressly mentioned or not in the document or contract, if 
any; 

(n ) "member" means a member of the National Commission or a State Commission 
and includes the Chairperson ; 

(0 ) " National Commission " means the National Farmers Distress and Disaster 
Relief Commission constituted under section 6 ; 

(p ) " penal interest " means any amount payable in excess of interest on a debt; 
(q ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules under this Act; 

(r) " principal amount" means the amount originally advanced together with the 
amount, if any, as has been subsequently advanced , notwithstanding any stipulation 
to treat any interest as capital and notwithstanding that the debt has been renewed , 
whether by the same farmer or by his heirs , assignees or legal representatives or by 
any other person acting on his behalf or in his interest; and whether in favour of the 
some creditor or his heirs, assignees or legal representatives or any other person 
acting on his behalf or in his interest, and whether in favour of the same creditor or his 
heirs assignees or legal representatives or of any other person acting on his behalf or 
in his interest; 

(s) " private creditor" means any person engaged in lending money, whether 
under a licence or not or providing credit in the form of inputs and implements , and 
includes his heirs, legal representatives, assignees , and any other person as may be 
notified by the Government; 

(t) " production loan " means short term loan borrowed for meaning the running 
or routine costs of producing an agricultural commodity ; 

(u ) " Secretary " means the Secretary to the National Commission or State 
Commission appointed under section 6 or section 17 , as the case may be ; and 

(v ) " State Commission " means the State Farmers Distress and Disaster Relief 
Commission constituted under section 16 . 

CHAPTER II 

ONE - TIME IMMEDIATE LOAN WAIVER 
3. ( 1) Every farmer, including distress affected farmer shall be entitled to an immediate 
and unconditional waiver of the entire amount of outstanding institutional debt as defined in 
section 2 (e ), as on 1st of April , 2018 ; 

(2 ) Every farmer after repayment of debt who have repaid debt from the financial year 
preceding the cut- off period in sub - section ( 1 ) shall have his accounts credited with the 
amount of scale of finance for the crop grown and interest paid within three months of the 
commencement of this Act; 

( 3 ) The loan waiver shall be implemented in a single installment by the Government 
within three months of the commencement of this Act; 

(4 ) The Central Government shall ensure that all farmers get fresh loans to every 
farmer in the ensuing season without any impact of the implementation of loan waiver; 

(5 ) The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law 
in this behalf , provide sufficient funds to the State Governments to implement waiver of 
loans from Cooperative Banks; 


Right of 
farmer to 
receive one 
time 
immediate 
and complete 
loan waiver. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


625 


(6 ) All private debts of farmers, shall stand null and void , as on date of waiver of 
outstanding debt as mentioned under sub -section ( 1) and no proceeding or suit shall lie 
against the farmer for the principal or interest : 

Provided that a private creditor may file a claim for recovery from Government, of the 
principal amount of such a loan after establishing the existence of the loan as per prescribed 
procedure and subject to prescribed requirements and limits and there shall be no recovery 
of debt from the farmer. 

( 7 ) The Central Government shall issue a notification for implementation of the 
provisions sub -section (6 ) immediately after the commencement of this Act. 

(8 ) The CentralGovernment shall, within three months of the commencement of this 
Act, take up special measures for providing relief on priority basis to farmer suicide affected 
families, which shall include 

( a ) complete waiver of outstanding loans ; 

(b ) return of any land , equipment or other asset that may have been attached or 
confiscated by any institutional or private creditor in lieu of debt; and 
(c ) appropriate livelihood support as per prescribed guidelines. 

CHAPTER III 

RIGHT TO ACCESS INSTITUTIONAL CREDIT 
4. (1) Every farmer including distress affected farmer shall be entitled to production Right to 
loans from institutional creditors at subsidized interest rates : 

every farmer 

to access 
Provided that 

institutional 

credit . 
( a ) production loans up to rupees three lakhs shall be available to the farmer at 
zero interest rate and this limit be revised periodically ; 

(b ) the amount of production loan for crop cultivation shall be as per prescribed 
scale of finance for the crop being cultivated with a small consumption loan component. 

(2 ) Every farmer including a lessee farmer ,tenant farmer, share -croper,woman farmer, 
tribal farmer or a farmer of such category engaged in cultivation of crops on an extent of land 
but does not possessing the title for that land shall be registered and issued a Kisan Credit 
Card , within six months from the commencement of this Act: 
Provided that , 

( a ) the cultivator shall, without any collateral security other than hypothecation 
of crop , be entitled to production loan as per sub -section (1) ; and 

(b ) the Kisan Credit Card shall be issued for a minimum period of five years and 
may be renewed after five years or modified during the period of validity as per 
prescribed procedure. 

CHAPTER IV 
DEBIT RELIEF FOR FARMERS AFFECTED BY DISTRESS AND DISASTERS 
5 . When a natural disaster or calamity is declared by the Central Government, the Debt Relief 
farmer shall be entitled to relief from repayment of the production loan to the extent of the for Farmers 

affected by 
loss of crop or other production with fresh loans issued for the next season within one month 

Distress and 
of declaration of such disaster or calamity : 

Disasters . 
Provided that , 


Natural 


(i) loans other than production loans shall be rescheduled for three years with 
interest rates not exceeding two per cent.; and 

(ii ) loans shall be waived off in full in case of farmers who are affected by two 
consecutive years of natural disaster. 


626 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Constitution 
of the 
National 
Commission . 


CHAPTER V 
NATIONAL FARMERS DISTRESS AND DISASTER RELIEF COMMISSION 
6 . ( 1) The Central Government shall, within six months after implementing loan 
waiver under section 3 , and within a maximum of twelve months from the commencement of 
this Act. by notification in the OfficialGazette , constitute a Commission to be known as the 
National Farmers Distress and Calamity Relief Commission , for exercising the powers and 
performing the functions and responsibilities defined under section 8. 
(2 ) The Commission shall consist of , 

( a ) an eminentagricultural scientist or retired Vice - Chancellor of an Agricultural 
University - Chairperson ; 

(b ) Two agricultural experts including experts in rural banking for agriculture — 
Members; 

(c ) five representative of farmers, including leaders of farmers unions and 
persons with a proven record of having worked on farmers issues — Members ; 
and 

(d ) a person with proven record of work with cooperative sector farmer producer 
organisations or agricultural banking — Member : 

Provided that one of the members shall be designated as Vice -Chairperson so that 
proceedings are not affected in the absence of the Chairperson for any reason . 

Provided further that at least one of the members nominated under clause (iii) and (iv ) 
shall be a woman . 

(3 ) The Chairperson and members shall be nominated by the President of India on the 
recommendation of a Selection Committee after seeking applications from eligible candidates 
wide publicity by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. 
(4) The Selection Committee shall consist of — 

( a ) the Prime Minister of India who shall be the Chairperson , 

(b ) the Leader of Opposition in the House of People or the leader of the single 
largest party or group in Opposition in the House of People; and 

(c ) the Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare: 
Provided further that a person shall be disqualified for appointment as a member if 
he, 

(a ) has been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which 
involves moral turpitude ; or 

(b ) is an undischarged insolvent; or 
(c ) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court; or 

(d ) has been removed or dismissed from the service of the Government or a body 
corporate owned or controlled by the Government; or 

(e) has such financial or other interest , as is likely to affect prejudicially the 
discharge of his functions as a member; or 

(H) has such other disqualifications as may be prescribed by the Government. 
(5 ) The Selection Committee shall , while nominating a member under clause ( iii ) and 
(iv ) of sub - section ( 2), take into consideration diversity in representation in terms of region , 
gender and social background including Scheduled Castes and the Seheduled Tribes. 

(6 ) The Central Government shall ensure that no member including Chairperson 
represents any financial, commercial or other interest which may prejudicially affect the 
discharge of his functions on the Commission : 


Sec. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


627 


Provided that no person associated with a farmers organization may be disqualified on 
that ground alone. 

( 7 ) The Central Government shall, in addition to providing all infrastructure 
facilities required including office space and other facilities appoint a Secretary and 
other staff as may be necessary to assist the Commission in such manner as may be 
prescribed . 

(8 ) In the discharge of their duties , the Secretary and other staff referred to in 
sub - section (7 ) above shall be subject to the administrative control of the Chairperson . 

(9 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
Chairperson , member, secretary and staff of the National Commission shall be such as may 
be prescribed 
7 . (1) The term of the National Commission shall be five years: 

Terms of the 

Commission . 
Provided that, the CentralGovernmentshall re- constitute the National Commission 
at least ten months prior to the end of the tenure of the current Commission : 

Provided further that the existing National Commission may continue to function 
for upto one additional year if required till new Commission is constituted . 

8 . A member may, by writing under his hand and address to the Chairperson , resign Resignation 
from his office at any time. 

of member. 
9. A vacancy arising by reason of resignation of any member of the National Commission Vacancies of 
under sub -section (2 ) or otherwise shall be filled up in accordance with the provisions membership . 
contained in section 6 : 

Provided that the person so appointed shall hold office only for the remaining 
period of term of the person , in whose place he is appointed ; 
10 . The CentralGovernment may remove any member, if he , 

Removal of 

a member. 
( a ) is declared as undischarged insolvent/debtor ; 

(b ) becomes incapable of countinuing as such , due to physical or mental 
disability ; 

(c ) becomes of unsound mind and stands so declared by a court of competent 
jurisdiction ; 

( d ) has been convicted for an offence, which in the opinion of the Government 
involvesmoral turpitude or financial irregularities ; 

(e ) has, in the opinion of the Government, abused his /her official position so as 
to render his continuance in office prejudicial to public interest: 

Provided that the member prior to his removal may be given an opportunity of being 
heard , before proceeding as such . 

11 . The National Commission shall regulate its own procedure for the conduct of its National 
business based on principles of participation , transparency , equity, promptness , dignity and Commission 
worth . 

to regulate 
its own 

procedure . 
12. ( 1) The National Commission shall exercise powers specified in sub - section (2) in Power and 
those States where a State Commission under this Act or an equivalent Commission under an functions of 
existing State DebtRelief Act is not in operation , and for those distress and calamity situations 

the National 

Commission . 
which affect two or more States and to make recommendations to the CentralGovernment for 
farmers distress and disaster relief. 
(2 ) The National Commission shall 

( a ) recommend to the Central Government either suo motu or on an application 
to declare a district or districts or part thereof as distress affected area , or to declare a 


628 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


crop or crops as distress affected crop , subsequent to which the Government is obligated 
to provide debt relief to rlated farmers : 
Provided that , 

(i) the recommendation may be made after such enquiry as itmay deem fit 
including drawing upon required expertise from a committee of competentexperts , 
and subject to such general guidelines as may be prescribed by the Central 
Government; 

( ii ) the commission shall submit its recommendations to the Central 
Government within onemonth of taking suo motu notice or on application made 
in this behalf ; and 

(iii ) when the Central Government in any State declares certain regions, 
districts or parts of district as affected by natural calamity or disaster , those 
regions, districts or parts of district shall be considered as distress affected by 
the Commission under this Act. 

(b ) declare a farmer as distress affected in all thos caseswhere individual farmers 
have applied to the National Commission following the due procedure laid down and 
subject to enquiry and norms as laid down, in those cases, where such farmers do not 
have a State Commission to apply to : 

Provided that the National Commission shall complete its inquiry within three 
months after receipt of application in this behalf; 

(c ) issue orders as specified in section 14 ; 
(d ) exercise powers of Civil Court as specified under section 15 ; 

( e ) oversee the implementation of section 4 ensuring access to institutional 
credit to all farmers and to redress grievances thereof based on applicaton by farmers 
or any associations or organizations representing farmers , registered or unregistered ; 

(f) recommend to the Central Government the extent and the manner in which any 
future debt relief may be granted to the farmers ; 

(g ) recommend to the Central Government regarding the mechanisms for one 
time debt-swapping of non - institutional loans of distressed farmers and oversee the 
implementation of the samewhere State Commissions are not functional; 

(h ) recommend to the CentralGovernment to take such action as may be necessary 
to ensure that future credit requirements of the farmers are met through such agencies , 
as may be prescribed ; 

(i) make periodical reports to the Central Government generally on any matter 
pertaining to farmers indebtedness ; 

(j) refer any pertinent matters to State Commission for further inquiry and action 
as well as to examine for consideration the recommendations given by the State 
Commissions to the National Commission ; and 

(k ) perform such other functions and exercise such other powers as may be 
prescribed . 

13 . The Central Government shall , as soon as may be, but within a maximum time 
period of fifteen days after the receipt of a recommendation under clause (a ) of sub -section 
(1) ofsection 8 , by notification in the Official Gazette, declare an area or a crop as a distress 
affected area or a distress affected crop , as the case may be: 

Provided that all farmers practicing agriculture in a distress affected area or cultivating 
the distress affected crop shall be considered as a distress affected farmers for the purposes 
of this Act; 


Central 
Government 
to notify 
distress 
affected area 
or distress 
affected 
crop . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


629 


14 . (1) Any distress -affected farmer who has not received adequate relief under section 5 Provisions 
may file an application before the National Commission if a State Commission is not existing 

for orders 

for relief to 
or operational, in a manner and in the form as may be prescribed , to obtain an injunction on 

distress 
further proceedings against himself by creditors until the adjudication is complete : 

affected 

farmers . 
Provided that in all cases where State Commissions exists, the farmer shall file an 
application before the State Commissions pertaining to his State . 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law or contract or 
decree or order of any court or Tribunal, the National Commission or any Bench thereofmay 
pass order to : 

(a ) obligate the CentralGovernment to repay the debt of an individual distressed 
farmer or all related farmers to crops or areas declared as distressed , against any 
creditor (private or institutional) based on prescribed guidelines for extreme distress ; 

(b ) reschedule short- term loans into medium term loans with zero interest rate , 
and medium term loans into long term loans at a maximum of two per cent. interest 
rate , in respect of the debts availed or by a farmer from institutional creditors if the 
indebted farmer is found to be distressed or is related to a distressed crop or distressed 
area ; 

( c) provide necessary facilities for one time settlement of agriculture loans falling 
under the category of non - performing assets, as per the guidelines issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India , provided the farmer is ready for such settlement; 

(d ) declare as discharged from a loan , any farmers who has repaid the principal 
amount taken by him ; 

(e ) a farmer to discharge his debts in suitable small instalments on the principal 
amount outstanding at the time of each payment, with the interest to be borne by the 
CentralGovernment. 

15 . (1) The National Commission shall, for the purpose of exercising the powers Powers of a 
conferred by or under this Act, have all the powers of a Civil Court while trying a suit under Civil Court . 
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), in respect of the followingmatters, namely : 

(a ) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him 
on oath ; 

(b ) ordering that no notices shall be issued , no coercive action or public shaming 
shall be exerted against the distressed farmer in any manner ; 

(c ) requiring the discovery and production of any documents ; 
(d) receiving evidence on affidavit ; 
(e ) examination of witnesses; 
(f) issuing commission for the examination of witnesses or for local investigation ; 

(g ) inspecting any property or thing concerning which any decision has to be 
taken ; 

(h ) requisitioning of any public record or copy thereof from any court, authority 
or office ; and 

(i) any other matter which may be prescribed . 
(2 ) Every award passed by the National Commission under sub -section ( 2 ) of 
section 14 shall be binding on the respondent. 

( 3 ) Every award of the Commission passed under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 14 shall be 
executed under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 as if it is decree of a Civil 
Court and accordingly , title deeds or any other documents pertaining to the loan with the 
creditor to be returned to the farmer, as the case may be, within the specified time: 


630 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Sittings of 
the 
Commission . 


Bar and 
Injunction on 
proceedings 
against a 
distress 
affected 
farmer. 


Provided that the awards of the Commission shall be executed within a time period of 
thirty days or otherwise as specified in each award . 

(4 ) Any farmer may obtain file for an Execution Decree from a Civil Court if the 
respondent fails to adhere to the time limit . 

16 . ( 1) The National Commission shall hold its sittings at such places and at such 
times as may be determined by it: 

Provided that the National Commission may hold its sittings in the respective district (s) 
declared as distress affected areas to consider matters relating to the distress affected areas; 

(2) The quorum for the sitting of the National Commission shall be ordinarily five , 
except as provided below in sub - section ( 3); 

(3 ) The National Commission may in appropriate cases as it deems fit, hold sittings in 
States or districts by constituting a Bench consisting of two or more members: 

Provided that at least one member representing farmers in the National Commission 
shall be included in the Bench so constituted : 

Provided further that in case of the Bench constituted by the National Commission , 
the quorum for themeeting of the Bench shall be the total number ofmembers of that Bench 
or two whichever is less. 

17 . ( 1) No suit for recovery of debt shall be instituted or application for execution of a 
decree in respect of a debt shall be made against a distress affected farmer described under 
sections 12 and 14 , and no appeal, revision petition or application for review against any 
decree or order in any such suit or application shall be presented or made against such 
distressed farmer in any Civil Courtor Tribunal or other authority , and such suits , applications, 
appeals and petitions instituted or made against such farmer before the date of declaration of 
a district or part thereof as a distress affected area and pending on such date shall stand 
stayed , for such period as the Commission may recommend in that behalf; 

(2 ) No notice shallbe issued , and no coercive action or public shaming shall be exerted 
against any distress affected farmer described under section 12 and section 14 for recovery 
of debt. 

18. (1) The National Commission shall publish all relevant information including 
applications handled , awards passed , orders issued , minutes of its meetings or sittings, if 
any and such other material on its website . 

(2) The National Commission shall prepare a report of its function of that year under 
this Act and the same shall be submitted to CentralGovernment in such form on or before 
such date as may be prescribed . 

(3 ) The Annual Report submitted to the Central Government by the National 
Commission under sub - section (2 ) above shall be laid before each House of the Parliament 
as soon as may be , but not later than the immediately subsequent session of the Parliament 
after the same is received by the Central Government. 

19 . ( 1 ) The National Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant 
records and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed . 

(2 ) The accounts of the National Commission shall be audited annually and the audited 
report shall be placed before each House of the Parliament. 

CHAPTER VI 
STATE FARMERS DISTRESS AND DISASTER RELIEF COMMISSION 
20 . ( 1) Every State Government shall , within six months after implementing the 
immediate and complete loan waiver under Section 3 but within a maximum period of 
twelve months of the commencement of this Act, by notification in the Gazette , except 
in those States where a State Farmers Debt Relief Act or an equivalent Act by any 


Transparent 
functioning 
and Annual 
Report to be 
laid before 
the 
Parliament. 


Accounts and 
Audit . 


Constitution 
of State 
Farmers 
Distress and 
Disaster 
Relief 
Commission . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


631 


other name is operational at the commencement of this Act, under which such a 
Debt Relief Commission or an equivalent institution has already been established , 
constitute a State Commission to be known as the State Farmers Distress and Disaster 
Relief Commission for the purpose of exercising the powers and performing the functions 
under this Act. 
( 2) The State Commission shall consist of, — 

(i) an eminent agricultural scientist or retired Vice Chancellor of an Agricultural 
University - Chairperson ; 

( ii ) two agricultural experts in rural banking for agriculture — Members ; 

( iii ) five representatives of farmers, including leaders of farmers unions and persons 
with a proven record of having worked on farmers issues — Members ; and 

(iv ) a person with having expertise in economic or co -operative sector — Member, 
(3) The Chairperson and members shall be nominated by the State Government on the 
recommendation of a Selection Committee after seeking applications with wide publicity , 
from eligible persons . 
( 4 ) The Selection Committee shall consist of 

(i) the Chief Minister of the State who shall be the Chairperson ; 

(ii) the Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly or the leader of the single 
largest party or group in Opposition in the State Assembly ; and 

( iii) the Minister for Agriculture in the State Government: 
Provided that , 

(a ) if an elected Government is not in place in the State, the Chairperson and 
Members shall be nominated by the Governor of the State ; and 
(b ) a person shall be disqualified for appointment as a member if he, 

(a ) has been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence 
which involves moral turpitude; or 

(b ) is an undischarged insolvent; or 
(c ) is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court ; or 

(d ) has been removed or dismissed from the service of the Government or 
a body corporate owned or controlled by the Government; or 

(e ) has such other disqualifications as may be prescribed by the 
Government. 
(5) The Selection Committee,while nominating a member under clause ( ii ), ( iii ) and ( iv ) 
of sub - section (2 ), shall take into consideration diversity in representation in terms of region , 
gender and social background including the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. 

(6 ) The State Government shall ensure that no member including Chairperson represents 
any financial, commercial or other interest which may prejudicially affect the discharge of his 
functions on the Commission : 

Provided that no person associated with a farmer s organization may be disqualified on 
that grounds alone . 

(7 ) The State Government shall, in addition to provision of office facilities and 
infrastructure for effective functioning appoint in Secretary and other staff as may be necessary, 
to assist the State Commission in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(8 ) In the discharge of their duties, the Secretary and other staff referred to in 
sub -section (6 ) shall be subject to the administrative control of the Chairperson . 


632 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Terms of the 
State 
Commission . 


21. ( 1) The term of the State Commission shall be five years: 

Provided that, the State Government shall re - constitute the State Commission at least 
ten months prior to the end of the tenure of the current State Commission : 

Provided further that the existing State Commission may continue to function for upto 
one additional year if required till new State Commission is appointed . 

(2 ) A member may, by writing under his hand and address to the State Government 
resign from his office at any time. 

( 3 ) A vacancy arising by reason of resignation of any member of the State Commission 
under sub - section ( 2 ) or otherwise shall be filled up in accordance with the provisions 
contained in section 20 of this Act: 

Provided that the person so appointed shall hold office only for the remaining period 
of term of the person , in whose place he is appointed . 
(4 ) The State Government may remove any member, if he, 

(a ) is declared as undischarged insolvent or debtor; 
(b ) becomes incapable of continuing as such , due to physical ormentaldisability ; 

(c) becomes of unsound mind and stands so declared by a court of competent 
jurisdiction ; 

(d ) has been convicted for an offence, which in the opinion of the State 
Government involves moral turpitude or financial irregularities: 

(e) has, in the opinion of the State Government, abused his /her official position 
so as to render his continuance in office prejudicial to public interest : 

Provided that the member prior to his removal may be given an opportunity of 
being heard , before proceeding as such . 

(5 ) The State Commission shall regulate its own procedure for the conduct of its 
business based on principles of transparency , participation , equity , dignity and worth . 

(6 ) The salary and allowances and the other conditions of service of Chairperson and 
Members of the State Commission shall be, as may be prescribed . 
22. (1) The State Commission shall 

(a ) recommend to the State Government concerned either suo motu or on an 
application to declare a district or districts or part thereof as distress affected area , or 
to declare a crop or crops as distress affected crop , subsequent to which the State 
Government is obligated to provide debt relief to related farmers as recommended by 
the State Commission : 
Provided that the State Commission shall make recommendation 

(i)the recommendation may be made after such enquiry as itmay deem fit 
including drawing upon required expertise from a committee of competent experts ; 
and subject to such general guidelines as may be prescribed . 

(ii) the commission shall submit its recommendations to the Government 
within one month of taking suo moto notice or on application ; 

(iii ) when the Government in any State declares certain regions, districts 
or parts of district as affected by natural calamity or disaster, those regions, 
districts or parts of districts shall be considered as distress affected area by the 
Commission under this Act; 

(b ) recommend , in the case of private loans, legalmeasures to the undertaken by 
the State Government, to exonerate the farmers from such loans whereby the State 
Government, as soon as possible , and upon the receipt of such a recommendation but 
within one month , notifies such private loans to be null and void ; 


Powers and 
functions of 
the State 
Commission . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


633 


(C) issue orders as specified under section 25 ; 

( d ) oversee the implementation of section 4 ensuring access to institutional 
credit to all farmers, and to redress grievances thereof, based on application by farmers 
or any associations or organizations representing farmers, registered or unregistered ; 

(e ) oversee one time debt-swapping of private loans into institutional loans of 
distressed farmers within the State ; 

(f) make periodical reports to the State Government generally on any matter 
pertaining to farmer indebtedness ; 

(8) make specific recommendations to the National Commission to consider; 
(h ) recommend any other measures for survival of distressed farmers; and 

(i) perform such other functions and exercise such other powers, as may be 
prescribed . 

( 2 ) An Award passed by the State Commission under section 25 shall be binding on the 
respondent. 

( 3) Every award by the State Commission shall be passed within six months of the time 
of receipt of application from an indebted farmer, with the first screening of paperwork 
happening within thirty days and first hearing happening within sixty days . 

(4 ) Every award of the State Commission passed under section 22 shall be executed 
under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908 ), as if it is a decree of a 
Civil Court, and accordingly , title deeds or any other documents pertaining to the loan with 
the creditor to be returned to the farmer, as the case may be within the specified time: 

Provided that every award of the State Commission shall be executed within a specific 
time period of thirty days or otherwise , as specified in each award : 

Provided further that a farmer may obtain an Execution Decree from a Civil Court if the 
respondentparty does not comply to the time limit for the execution of the award . 

(5 ) The State Commission shall , for the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by 
or under this Act, have all the powers of a Civil Court while trying a suit under the Code of 
Civil Procedure 1908 (5 of 1908 ) in respect of the followingmatters , namely : 

(a ) summoning and enforcing attendance of any person and examining him on 
oath ; 

(b ) Ordering in that no notices shall be issued , no coercive action or public 
shaming shall be exerted against the distressed farmer in any manner; 

(c) requiring the discovery and production of any documents; 
(d) receiving evidence on affidavit; 
(e ) examination of witnesses; 
(f) issuing commission for the examination of witness or for local investigations; 

(8 ) inspecting any property or thing concerning which any decision has to be 
taken ; 

(h ) requisitioning of any public record or copy thereof from any court , authority 
or office ; and 

(i) any other matter which may be prescribed . 
23 . The State Government concerned shall , as soon asmay be, but within a maximum 
time period of fifteen days after the receipt of a recommendation under clause (a ) of 
sub -section (1) of section 22 notify in the Official Gazette, an area or a crop as a distress 
affected area or a distress affected crop , as the case may be and thereby initiate the debt relief 
powers of the Commission : 


State 
Government 
to notify 
distress 
affected area 
or distress 
affected crop . 


634 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


farmers . 


Provided that all farmers practicing agriculture in a distress affected areas as declared 
or cultivated the distress affected crop as declared , shall be considered distress affected 

farmers under this Act. 
Sittings of 

24 . ( 1 ) The State Commission shall hold its sittings at such places and at such times as 
the State 

may be determined by it : 
Commission . 

Provided that the State Commission shall hold its sittings in the respective district(s) 
declared as distress affected areas to consider matters relating to the distress affected areas. 

(2) The quorum for the sitting of the State Commission shall be five . 

(3) The State Commission may in appropriate cases it deemsfit, hold sittings in districts 
by constituting a Bench consisting of two ormore members: 

Provided that at least one member representing the farmer in the State Commission 
shall be included in the Bench so constituted : 

Provided further that in case of the Bench constituted by the State Commission , the 
quorum for the meeting of the Bench shall be the total number ofmembers of that Bench or 

two whichever is less . 
Provisions 

25 . (1) Every farmer from the State , who has not obtained adequate relief under 
for Orders 

section 5 may, file an application before the State Commission , in a manner and in the form as 
from State 
Commission 

may be prescribed , to obtain an injunction on further proceedings againsthimself by creditors 
for relief to until the adjudication is complete . 
distress 

(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law or contract or 
affected 

decree or order of any Court or Tribunal , the State Commission or any of its Benches thereof 
may pass order to : 

( a ) obligate the State Government to repay the entire debt of a distress affected 
farmer so declared by the State Commission , against any creditor (private or 
institutional); 

(b ) reschedule short -term loans into medium term loans with zero interest rate, 
and medium term loans into long term loans at a maximum oftwo per cent interest rate , 
in respect of the debts availed of by a farmer from institutional creditors; 

(c ) provide necessary facilities for one timesettlementof agriculture loans falling 
under the category of non - performing assets, as per the guidelines issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India , provided the farmer is ready for such settlement; 

(d ) declare as discharged from a loan , any farmer who has repaid the principal 
amount taken by him or her ; 

(e ) allow a farmer to discharge his debts in suitable small installments on the 
prinicipal amount outstanding at the time of each payment, with the interest to be 

borne by the Government. 
Bar and 

26 . ( 1) No suit for recovery of debt shall be instituted , or application for execution of 
Injunction on decree in respect of a deh 

decree in respect of a debt shall be made against a distress affected farmer described under 
proceedings 
against a 

sections 20 and 22, and no appeal, revision petition or application for review against any 
distress decree or order in any such suit or application shall be presented or made against a distressed 
affected farmer in any Civil Court , or Tribunal or other authority, and such suits, applications, appeals 
farmer , as 

and petitions instituted or made against such a farmer before the date of declaration of a 
per State 
Commission 

district or part thereof as a distress affected area and pending on such date shall stand 
recommendations. stayed , for such period as the State Commission may recommend in that behalf ; 

(2) No notices shall be issued , and no coercive action or defamation in public shall be 
exerted against a distress affected farmer described under section 19 and section 22 , for 
recovery of debt. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


635 


fund 


27 . (1) The State Commission shall publish all relevant information including the Transparent 
applications received , Awards passed , minutes of its meetings or sittings, if any, and such 

and Annual 
other material on its website . 

report to be 
(2) The State Commission shall prepare a report of its function of that year under this 

laid before 

the State 
Act and shall submit the same to State Government in such form on or before such date as 

1 01 01 Delle such date as Legislature . 
may be prescribed . 

( 3 ) The Annual Report submitted to the State Government by the State Commission 
under sub -section (2 ) shall be laid before the State Legislative Assembly as soon as may be , 
after the same is received by the State Government. 

28 . (1 ) The State Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevantrecords Accounts and 
and prepare an annual statement of accounts , in such form as may be prescribed . 

Audit related 

to State 
( 2 ) The accounts of the State Commission shall be audited annually and the audit Commission . 
report shall be placed before the Legislative Assembly. 

CHAPTER VII 

OBLIGATIONS OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
29. (1) The CentralGovernment shall reserve and spend adequate financial outlays in Central 
the Union Budget as required under this Act for the immediate one-time loan waiver on an Government 
annualbasis to implement the award passed and orders issued by the Commission . 

to constitute 

a Fund for 
(2 ) The financial outlay under sub - section ( 1 ) shall also be utilised for 

the purpose 

of waiving 
( a ) relief and rehabilitation of families where a farmer suicide has taken place in off loan, etc . 
the last five years from the commencement of this Act; and 

(b ) a part of the outlay shall be set aside as a Credite Guarantee Fund for 
lessee cultivators to build confidence among institutional creditors to lend to 
lessee cultivators for re -financing of institutional crditors during continuous natural 
disasters. 
30 . (1 ) The CentralGovernment shall notify 

Exemption 

from 
(a ) certain categories of property related to certain loans to be exempted from attachment 
attachment or auctioning for non -payment of debt; and 

of property 

and 
(b ) prohibition of penal interest on crop loans and cumulative interest on any prohibition of 
agricultural loan from exceeding the principal of the loan , whether from an institutional 

and excessive 
or private creditor. 

cumulative 
interest . 


pena 


rest 


31 . The Central Government shall reform the priority sector lending norms ensuring Reform of 
that the bank credit under priority sector lending reaches small and marginal farmers and real Priority 
farmers including women farmers, tenants , sharecroppers and adivasi farmers , ensure that its Lending 

Norms and 
compliance is addressed by the Reserve Bank of India,NABARD and other apex institutions 

ensuring 
with re - financing schemes to such compliance. 

compliance . 
32. ( 1) The CentralGovernment shallimplement adeaquate and effective disaster relief Effective 
and insurance for all crops, live stock and allied sectors, to ensure that in years of disaster disaster relief 
including drought, floods, cyclones , unseasonal rainfall , hailstorms and pest outbreaks , and 

od and crop 
destruction by wild animals etc., the farmers do not accumulate debt. 

(2 ) The insurance premium in respect of the crop insurance schemementioned under 
sub - section ( 1) shall be borne by the appropriate Government. 

33 . The Central Government shall establish and promote on a large scale low - cost Promotion of 
ecological agriculture as a measure to reduce indebtedness amongst farmers. 

low cost 
ecological 
agriculture . 


insurance . 


636 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


CHAPTER VIII 
MISCELLANEOUS 


Overriding 

34 . The provisions of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder shall have effect 
effect of Act. notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any law , other than this Act, 

or any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act. 
Bar of 

35 . No civil courts shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any question or 
jurisdiction of to 
Civil Court. 

to determine any matter which is by or under the Act or the rule made thereunder are required 

to be settled , decided or dealt with or to be determined by the Nationalor State Commissions ; 
Members and 36 . Every Member, secretary and other staff of the Commission (National as well as 
Staff of 

State ) shall be deemed to be a Public Servantwithin themeaning of section 21 of the Indian 
Commissions 

Penal Code 1860 . 
deemed Public 
Servants. 


Protection of 
action taken 

aken 
in good faith . 


Power to 
remove 
difficulties . 


37 . No suit or legal proceeding shall lie against any member of the Commission or 
seSecretary or other officers for anything which is done or purported to be done in good faith 
under this Act. 

38 . (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the 
Government may, by order as occasion requires , do anything not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this Act, which appears to them to be necessary for the purpose of removing 
the difficulty : 


Power to 
make rules. 


Provided that no such order shall bemade after the expiry of two years from the date of 
commencement of this Act . 

(2 ) Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of Parliament. 

39 . ( 1) The appropriate Governmentmay, notification in the Gazette ,make rules for the 
purpose of carrying in to effect the provisions of this Act. 

( 2) Every rule made under this Act by the Central Government shallbe laid , as soon as 
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a totalperiod 
of fourteen days which may be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and 
if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive 
sessions aforesaid both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the 
Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have effect only in 
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so however that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule . 

( 3 ) Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall laid , as soon as may 
be after it is made , before the State Legislature. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


637 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The nation is indebted to farmers for the food security and sovereignty functions that 
they contribute . In spite of their contribution , thousands of farmers are committing suicide 
every year and millions of farmers are in distress due to indebtedness . The Government is 
obligated to prevent farmer s suicides and distress , especially because their causes are 
related to Government policies. 

Prices of farm commodities have been kept low as a policy measure and the 
recommendation of the National Farmers Commission to fix Minimum Support Prices with at 
least fifty per cent. returns on the comprehensive cost ofproduction has not been implemented 
for the past twelve years , thus adversely affecting farmers returns and building up 
indebtedness . 

The Governments have not fulfilled their responsibilities to provide comprehensive 
institutional credit facilities, provide recognition and full inclusion to many categories of 
farmers including tenant farmers,women farmers and adivasi farmers, execute effective risk 
insurance and disaster relief measures, keep input prices in check and effectively promote 
low cost sustainable agriculture and to build infrastructure . These failures on the part of the 
Government have resulted in huge losses to farmers, leading to a debt trap , with both 
institutional and private creditors . In the context of frequent occurrence of natural calamities 
and climate change, farmers need automatic protection from the debt trap during disasters . 

In has been held that the Right to Life guaranteed under article 21 of the Constitution 
includes the right to live with human dignity and the right to livelihood . Thus, theGovernment 
is obligated to ensure a life of dignity and freedom from indebtedness to farmers who are in 
debt due to no fault of theirs and for reasons not under their control. 

In order to provide relief to the farmers who are in distress due to indebtedness, the Bill 
provides an immediate and complete loan waiver. To prevent farmers from being pushed back 
into indebtedness, there is need to provide systemic changes in all farmers into the fold of 
institutional credit with zero interest rate , and for substantive debt relief in the case of 
disasters. The Reserve Bank of India and NABARD shall be mandated to ensure compliance . 

Farmers Distress and Disaster Relief Commissions shall be constituted at the national 
and State levels with power to pro - actively recommend relief measures in distress affected 
areas and distress affected crops, and pass awards for the redressal of the grievances of 
indebted farmers in various ways . The Bill also obligates suggests the Government to institute 
effective disaster relief and crop insurance and promotion of low -cost ecological agriculture, 
and furthermore , seeks to provide special support to families affected by a farmer suicide . 

As the root causes of indebtedness and the increasing incidence of natural disasters 
due to climate change are common in various States across the country, there is a need for a 
Central legislation to address the problem and to provide the necessary relief and institutional 
framework for protection of farmers from indebtedness. In view of the guidelines by the 
Supreme Court for harmonization of Entry 45 of the Union List and Entry 30 of the State List, 
the Bill provides a national framework with the cooperation of State Governments , for the 
implementation of distress relief at the national and State level , with adequate resource 
support from the Central Government. 

Hence , this Bill. 


RAJU SHETTI 


NEW DELHI; 
April6 , 2018 . 


638 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 3 of the Bill inter alia provides for sufficient funds by the CentralGovernment 
for immediate one -time loan waiver. 

Clause 4 of the Bill inter alia provides for sufficient funds by the Central Government 
for bringing all farmers into the fold to institutional credit for production loans at zero per 
cent interest rate , and for reschedule, relief of waivers at the time of disasters . 

Clause 5 provides for constitution of the National Farmers Distress and Disaster Relief 
Commission and ensuing expenditure. 

Clause 26 provides for adequate financial outlays for implementing the awards and 
orders issued by the Commission (National and State ), for relief and rehabilitation of farm 
suicide families, and a Credit Guarantee Fund that addresses the inclusion of lessee /tenant 
farmers into institutional credit. 

Clause 30 provides for implementation of adequate and effective disaster relief and 
crop insurance schemes. 

Clause 31 provides for establishment and promotion of low cost ecological agriculture 
on a large scale . 

The Bill, therefore, if enacted ,will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of 
India . However, it is not possible at this stage as to the exact amount which is likely to be 
incurred towards recurring and non -recurring expenditure for the purpose . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 39 of the Bill empowers the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purpose of this Act. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is, therefore, of a normal character . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


639 


Bill No . 115 OF 2018 


A Bill to confer a right on every farmer to guaranteed remunerative minimum support 
prices for agricultural produce with minimum fifty percent. profit margin above 
comprehensive cost of production upon sale of agricultural commodities and 

for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto . 
WHEREAS safeguarding the right to livelihood is essential for the realization of right to 
life guaranteed under article 21 of the Constitution ; 

AND WHEREAS article 38 (2 ) of the Constitution provides that the State shall, in particular, 
strive to minimize the inequalities in income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, 
facilities and opportunities not only amongst individuals but also amongst groups of people 
residing in different areas or engaged in different vocations; 


AND WHEREAS article 39 ( a ) of the Constitution provides that the State shall direct its 
policies towards securing that the citizens, men and women equally , have the right to an 
adequate means of livelihood ; 

AND WHEREAS article 43 of the Constitution provides that the State shall endeavour to 
secure, by suitable legislation or economic organization , or in any other way , to all workers, 


640 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work , a living wage, conditions of work ensuring a 
decent standard of life and full enjoyment of leisure, social and cultural opportunities; 

AND WHEREAS farmers do not get adequate return of their investment and toil despite 
good production , and therefore their condition is steadily deteriorating and leading to commit 
suicide by tens of thousands of farmers every year ; 

AND WHEREAS consumer interests have been justifiably protected through National 
Food Security Act 2013 and Essential Commodities Act 1955 so that adequate food is affordable 
and available for needy citizens and shall continue to be so ; 

AND WHEREAS the input cost is increasing beyond the meager means of farmers ; 

AND WHEREAS the price realized by farmers for their agricultural commodities is not 
providing sufficient returns in compare of the cost of production to provide income even to 
sustain basic needs of the household ; 

AND WHEREAS the National Farmers Commission had recommended a principle for 
remunerative prices to be fixed with a minimum profitmargin of at least fifty per cent over and 
above the comprehensive cost of production ; 

AND WHEREAS ensuring adequate returns in agriculture is essential to safeguarding the 
food security of the nation ,especially in the context of shrinking landholdings and decreasing 
livelihood opportunities ; 

AND WHEREAS the Government is duty bound to take steps to prevent suicides by 
farmers due to their pitiable economic condition ; 

AND WHEREAS social security is listed at entry 23 of List III (Concurrent List ), the 
subject of trade and commerce in , and the production , supply and distribution of food stuffs , 
cattle fodder, raw cotton , raw jute at entry no . 33 in List III, the subject of price control is 
listed at entry 34 in List III and any refund payable for difference between prices realized in 
themarket on production of receipts shall be paid from any Bank under Negotiable Instruments 
Act, 1881 covered under Banking at entry 45 of List I; 

AND WHEREAS for the above reasons, it is essential to provide farmers with a right to 
guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices for all agricultural commodities; 
Beit enacted by Parliament in the Sixty- ninth year of the Republic of India,as follows: 

CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 


Short title , 
extent and 


1. (1 ) This Actmay be called the Farmers Right to Guaranteed Remunerative Minimum 
Support Prices for Agricultural Commodities Act, 2018 . 


commencement. 


(2 ) It extends to the whole of India . 


Definitions. 


( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernment,may by notification 
in the OfficialGazette, appoint. 
2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise require , - 

(a ) “ agricultural commodity means all cereals, all millets, all pulses, all oilseeds, 
all fibre crops, all horticulture crops of fruits and vegetables, all spice crops, all tuber 
crops , all medicinal plants, all varieties of milk , all minor forest produce, floriculture , 
grass, fodder grass and tree produce, nursery produce , all plantation produce , all 
animal products like meat and mutton , eggs and poultry, all fishery produce like fish 
mussel, marine fish , freshwater aquatic produce, honey , silkworm cocoons, and all 
such other primary produce and agricultural commodity with all its cognate expressions ; 

(b ) “ agricultural expert” includes a person by virtue of academic qualification or 
with proven work record and having at least fifteen years practical or management 
experience in agriculture -related sectors ; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


641 


(c) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State the Government of 
that State , and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(d ) “ guaranteed remunerative minimum support price” means the price that 
ensures a minimum fifty per cent. profit margin over and above the comprehensive 
cost of production of a given agricultural commodity as determined under section 5 
and notified under section 6 , to which shall be added the bonus announced by the 
State Government wherein the comprehensive cost of production at the State level is 
covered with at least a fifty per cent. profit margin over and above such cost of 
production ; and in the case of standing (plantation ) crops, as specifically determined 
by the Commission and guided by Schedule I to this Act; 


(e ) “ Central Commission ” means the Central Farmers Agricultural Costs and 
Remunerative Price Guarantee Commission constituted under section 8 ; 

(f) “ cost of production ” means the comprehensive cost as estimated under 
section 4 and based on Schedule I; 


(8 ) “ farmer” means a person engaged in the economic and livelihood activity of 
agriculture in terms of growing crops , or producing other primary agricultural 
commodities with or without land ownership , and includes all agricultural operational 
holders, cultivators, agriculture labourers, sharecroppers, tenants , poultry and livestock 
rearers, fishers, beekeepers, pastoralists, non -corporate planters and planting labourers 
as well as forest- produce - gatherers , farmers groups , producer cooperatives or 
self-help Groups performing cultivation on collectively owned or leased -in land and 
also includes women farmers . 

(h ) “ Fund ” means the State Compensation Fund maintained and administered 
by the State Commission under section 16 ; 


(i) “ market ” means regulated markets, systems of procurement of agricultural 
commodities run by State procurement agencies , consumer or service cooperatives, 
corporations as well as contract farming arrangements (formal or informal ) that 
different entities have , for procuring agricultural commodities from farmers,including 
milk collection centers , and procurement centers opened by different public sector 
agencies and other market yards run by Government agencies including Panchayats 
and cooperatives and includes private markets ; 

(1) “member” means a member of the Commission (Central or State ) and includes 
the Chairperson ; 

(k ) “ prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

(1) “ State Commission ” means the State Farmers Agricultural Costs and 
Remunerative Price Guarantee Commission constituted under section 13 ; and 

( m ) " trader" means any individual, or any other entity including sole 
proprietorship , a partnership firm , public sector or corporate entity that purchases 
agricultural commodities from farmer directly. 

CHAPTER II 
GUARANTEED REMUNERATIVE MINIMUM SUPPORT PRICE FOR ALL AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES 

3. Every farmer shall be entitled to a guaranteed remunerative minimum support price Right of 
against sale of any agricultural commodity . 

every farmer 
to guaranteed 
remunerative 
minimum 
support prices 
for 
Agricultural 
commodity . 


642 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Comprehensive 
estimation of 
cost of 
production of 
all agricultural 
commodities . 


Determination 
of Guaranteed 
Remunerative 
Minimum 
Support Price . 


Notification 
of guaranteed 

inteed 
remunerative 
minimum 
support 
prices. 


4 . ( 1) The CentralGovernment shall, through the Central Commission , institute robust, 
comprehensive and accurate system for estimation of comprehensive cost of production as 
defined in the Schedule for all agricultural commodities . 

(2 ) The cost of estimation under sub - section ( 1) shall be comprehensive with all 
paid -out costs as well as imputed costs including family labour at skilled wage rates as those 
that pertain to the State or region , rental value of land , interest on assets and remuneration 
calculated for managerial functions performed by the farm household , in addition to 
depreciation of assets and other components as listed in Schedule I and shall take into 
account the period of each crop into consideration : 

Provided that agricultural commodities where the system of cost estimation is not 
available , the CentralGovernment shall institute such systems that require data collection on 
a timely basis consisting of the actual average yield for the past five years, in a rolling manner 
and the estimation (data ,methodology, sampling and statistical analyses) shall be periodically 
reviewed and implemented . 

5 . (1 ) The Central Commission shall determine the guaranteed remunerativeminimum 
support price for each agricultural commodity and recommended the same to the Government 
as provided under section 10 . 

(2 ) The recommendation madeby the Central Commission under sub - section ( 1 ) shall 
be the basis for the Central Government to notify the guaranteed remunerative minimum 
support price for each agricultural commodity . 

6 . ( 1) The Central Government shall , as soon asmay be, butwithin one month after the 
receipt of recommendation of the Central Commission , notify the guaranteed remunerative 
minimum support price of all agricultural commodities. 

( 2) The guaranteed remunerative minimum support price of agricultural commodities 
under sub- section ( 1) shall be notified by the Central Government on or before 28th day of 
February every year for the ensuing kharif production season and on or before the last day 
of July every year for the ensuing rabi production season , as the case may be. 

7 . The State Government shall, within fifteen days after receiving a recommendation 
from State Commission , notify a bonus in addition to the guaranteed remunerative minimum 
support price notified by the Central Government under section 5 : 
Provided that the additional cost of the bonus shall be borne by the State Government. 

CHAPTER III 
CENTRAL FARMERS AGRICULTURAL COSTS AND REMUNERATIVE PRICE GUARANTEE COMMISSION 

8 . ( 1) The Central Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette , constitute 
an autonomous body corporate to be known as the Central Farmers Agricultural Costs and 
Remunerative PriceGuarantee Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Central Commission ) 
for the purpose of exercising the powers and performing the functions assigned to it under 
this Act. 
(2 ) The Central Commission shall consist of — 

( a ) a full time Chairperson , who shall be a farmer and well qualified and experienced 
in agricultural economics and conversant with various agricultural aspects; faculties ; 

(b ) five representatives of farmers including representatives of Farmers 
Organisations and persons, including women , with proven record of having 
worked on farmers issues and good knowledge of agricultural economy, 
representing , as far as possible, from the different regions of the country — non 
officialmembers; 

(c ) three agricultural experts having requisite academic qualification in Agricultural 
Economics or any faculty incidental thereto , and with at least fifteen years of experience 
in the field of expertise — non - officialmembers; 


State 
Government 
to notify 
bonus. 


Constitution 
of the Central 
Farmers 
Agricultural 
Costs and 
Remunerative 
Price 
Guarantee 
Commission . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


643 


(d ) an official not below the rank of Joint Secretary to the Union Ministry of 
Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Departmentof Agriculture , Co -operation and Farmers 
Welfare — Member; 


(e ) an official not below the rank of Deputy Secretary to the Union Ministry of 
Agriculture and Farmers Welfare , Department of Agriculture, Co -operation and Farmers 
Welfare — Member Secretary, to be appointed by the Central Government in such 
manner as may be prescribed : 


Provided that one of the non -official members shall be appointed as Vice - Chairperson 
so that proceedings are not affected in the absence of the Chairperson for any reason to be 
appointed by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 


( 3) The Chairperson and members of the Central Commission shall be nominated by 
the President of India on the recommendation of a Selection Committee consisting of — 


(i) the Prime Minister who shall be the Chairperson ; 


(ii) the Leader of Opposition in House of the People or the leader of the single 
largest group or party in opposition in House of the People ; and 


(iii) the Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare . 


(4 ) The Selection Committee shall ,while nominating the Chairperson or a Member, take 
into consideration equitable regional representation from across the country , sectoral 
representation (cultivation , plantation , livestock , fisheries, agricultural labour, forest -produce 
gathering ), gender and social background on a rotational basis for representation of different 
States every time the Commission is re - constituted or vacancies filled : 


Provided that in case ofmember nominated under clauses (b ) and (c ) of sub - section (2 ), 
the Selection Committee shall take into account the representation of the Scheduled Castes 
and the Scheduled Tribes . 


(5 ) The Central Government shall ensure that no member including the Chairperson 
represents any conflict of interest in discharge of his functions. 


(6 ) The Chairperson and the members of the Central Commission shall not be a sitting 
Member of Parliament or aMember of State Legislature of any State or Union territory , as the 
case may be , or hold any other office of profit. 


( 7 ) The Central Government shall appoint such number of staff members as may be 
necessary to assist the Central Commission in such manner as may be prescribed . 


(8 ) In the discharge of their duties, themember Secretary and other staff referred to in 
sub - section (7 ) shall be subject to the administrative control of the Central Commission , 
represented by Chairperson . 


9 . ( 1) The term of the Central Commission shall be five years : 

Term of the 

Central 
Provided that the Central Government shall re - constitute the Central Commission at Commission 
least ten months prior to the end of the tenure of the existing Commission : 

and 

conditions of 
Provided further that any of the members of the existing Commission may be 

service of the 

members . 
re- nominated to the National Commission . 


(2) The Chairperson and thenon -officialmembers shall not be removed from his office 
except afterdue enquiry madeby the sitting judge of the High Court of Delhi and recommended 
as such to the President. 


( 3 ) Any member may, by writing under his hand and addressed to the Central 
Government, resign his office at any time. 


644 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Powers and 
functions of 
the Central 
Commission . 


( 4 ) Any vacancy arising by reason of resignation of any member of the Central 
Commission under sub -section ( 3 ) shall be filled up within six months in accordance with the 
provisions contained in section 7 : 

Provided that the person so appointed shall hold office only for the remaining period 
of term of the person in whose place he is appointed . 
(5 ) The CentralGovernmentmay remove anymember, if he, 

(a ) is declared as undischarged insolvent; 
(b ) becomes incapable of continuing as such due to physical or mental disability ; 

(c ) becomes of unsound mind and stands so declared by a court of competent 
jurisdiction ; 

(d ) has been convicted for an offence , which in the opinion of the Central 
Government involves moral turpitude or financial irregularities ; 

(e) has, in the opinion of the Government, abused his official position so as to 
render his continuance in office prejudicial to public interest . 

(6 ) The Central Commission shall regulate its own procedure for the conduct of its 
business with principles of participation , transparency and equity incorporated with periodic 
consultations organized with representatives of State Commissions, State Governments and 
farmer organisations across the country . 

(7 ) The terms and conditions of service and the salary and allowances payable to the 
Chairperson , non -officialmembers and staff of the Central Commission shall be such as may 
be prescribed . 
10 . (1 ) The Central Commission shall, - 

( a ) recommend guaranteed remunerative minimum support price to the Central 
Government for all agricultural commodities having a profit margin of at least fifty 
per cent. over and above the comprehensive cost of production based on Schedule I; 

(b ) recommend additional incentives on specified agricultural commodities for 
fulfilling social or environmental policy imperatives: 

Provided that the Central Commission may additionally take into consideration 
the recommendations from the State Commissions while finalizing its recommendation 
for additional incentives; 

( c ) recommend such measures that assure a remunerative and stable price 
environment for farmers including improvements in the storage and marketing 
infrastructure and procedures as well as adequate and appropriate support to producer 
organisations; 

(d ) monitor the prices being realised by farmers for various agricultural 
commodities all over the country and forward prompt advisiories to all concerned 
agencies or departments for effective action to be taken ; 

(e ) recommend to the Central Commission on all international trade agreements 
which affect agriculture directly or indirectly and report to the CentralGovernment for 
the consideration of its recommendations; and 

(f) recommend to the Central Government regulation of cost of agricultural inputs 
including seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, electricity, diesel and farm equipment. 

(2 ) The Central Commission shall submit the recommendations to the CentralGovernment 
for guaranteed remunerative minimum support price of all agricultural commodities for each 
year before the 15th day of February for the upcoming kharif season of that year and before 
the 15th day of July for the upcoming rabi season of that year. 

11. (1 ) The Central Commission shall publish all relevant information including the 
cost estimations, basis of guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices , market price 
trends and ensuing action , recommendations, minutes of its sittings and any other material 
on its website in such manner as may be prescribed . 


Publication of 
all relevant 
information 
on website of 
the Central 
Commission . 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


645 


(2) The Central Commission shall prepare an annual report of its functioning of that 
year and shall submit to the Central Government in such form on or before such date as may 
be prescribed . 

( 3 ) The Central Government shall , on receipt of the annual report under sub -section (2 ), 
cause it to be laid before each House of the Parliament, as soon as may be, after the same is 
received by it. 

12. (1) The Central Commission shallmaintain proper accounts and other Accounts Accounts and 
and relevant records and prepare annual statements of accounts in such form as may be Audit. 
prescribed. 


(2 ) The accounts of the Central Commission shall be audited annually and the audit 
report shall be placed before each House of the Parliament, along with the Annual Report by 
the CentralGovernment. 


CHAPTER IV 
STATE FARMERS AGRICULTURAL COSTS AND REMUNERATIVE PRICE GUARANTEE COMMISSION 


Constitution 
of State 
Farmers 
Agricultural 
Costs and 
Remunerative 
Price 
Guarantee 
Commission . 


13 . ( 1 ) The State Government shall , within six months after the commencement of this 
Act, by notification in the Official Gazette , constitute an autonomous body corporate to be 
known as the State Farmers Agricultural Costs and Remunerative Price Guarantee Commission 
( hereinafter referred as State Commission ) for the purpose of exercising the powers and 
performing the functions under this Act, and recommending and implementing the guaranteed 
remunerative minimum support prices for all agricultural commodities in the State . 
( 2 ) The State Commission shall consist of, — 

( a ) a full time Chairperson , who shall be a farmer and well qualified and 
experienced in agricultural economics and conversant with various agricultural 
faculties; 

(b ) five representatives of farmers including representatives of Farmers 
Organisations and persons , including women , with proven record of having 
worked on farmers issues and good knowledge of agricultural economy, 
representing, as far as possible , from the different regions of the State — non -official 
Members; 

(c ) one agricultural expert or research scientist having requisite academic 
qualifications in agricultures, Agricultural Economics or Agricultural Science , and 
with at least fifteen years of experience in the field of expertise — non - official 
Members; 

(d ) four officials each from the Department of Agriculture , Horticulture , Animal 
Husbandry and Fisheries to be recommended by the Directors of the Department of 
the State Government concerned - Members; 

(e ) an official of Department of Agricultural Marketing or equivalentof the State 
Government concerned — Member Secretary , 
to be appointed by the State Government in such manner as may be prescribed : 

Provided that one of the non -officialmembers shallbe designated as Vice- Chairperson 
so that proceedings are not affected in the absence of the Chairperson for any reason to be 
appointed by the State Government in such manner asmay be prescribed . 

(3 ) The Chairperson and members of the State Commission shall be nominated on the 
recommendation of a Selection Committee consisting of — 

(i) the Chief Minister who shall be the Chairperson ; 

( ii ) the Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly or the leader of the single 
largest group or party in opposition in the State Assembly ; and 

(iii ) the Minister for Agriculture of the State Government concerned . 


646 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


(4 ) The Selection Committee shall, while nominating the Chairperson or a Member, 
take into consideration equitable regional representation from across the State , sectoral 
representation , gender and social background on a rotational basis for representation of 
different regions within a State every time the State Commission is re- constituted or vacancies 
filled : 

Provided that in case of member nominated under clauses (b ) and (c ) of sub - section (2), 
the Selection Committee shall take into account the representation of the Scheduled Castes 
and the Scheduled Tribes. 

(5 ) The State Government shall ensure that no member including Chairperson represents 
any conflict of interest in discharge of his functions. 

(6 ) The State Government shall appoint such member of staff members as may be 
necessary to assist the State Commission in such manner as may be prescribed . 


Term of the 
State 
Commission 
and 
conditions of 
service of the 
members . 


(7 ) In the discharge of their duties , the member Secretary and other staff referred to in 
sub -section (6 ) shall be subject to the administrative control of the State Commission , 
represented by the Chairperson . 

14 . (1) The term of the State Commission shall be five years : 

Provided that the State Government shall re -constitute the State Commission at least 
ten months prior to the end of the tenure of the existing Commission : 

Provided further that the State Government may extend the term of the existing 
Commission if it deems necessary . 

( 2) The Chairperson and the non - official members shall not be removed from his office 
except after due enquiry made by the sitting judge of the High Court of the State concerned 
and recommended as such to the State Government. 

(3) Any membermay,by writing under his hand and addressed to the State Government, 
resign his office at any time. 

(4 ) Any vacancy arising by reason of resignation of any member of the State Commission 
under sub -section (3 ) above or otherwise shall be filled up in accordance with the provisions 
contained in section 12 : 


Provided that the person so appointed shall hold office only for the remaining period 
of term of the person in whose place he is appointed . 


( 5 ) The StateGovernmentmay remove anymember, if he , 


( a ) is declared as undischarged insolvent; 


(b ) becomes incapable of continuing as such due to physical or mental disability ; 

(c ) becomes of unsound mind and stands so declared by a court of competent 
jurisdiction ; 

(d ) has been convicted for an offence , which in the opinion of the Central 
Government involves moral turpitude or financial irregularities ; 


(e ) has, in the opinion of the Government, abused his official position so as to 
render his continuance in office prejudicial to public interest. 

(6 ) The State Commission shall regulate its own procedure for the conduct of its 
business based on principles of participation , transparency and equity and shall include 
periodic consultations with representatives of farmer organisations from various regions of 
the State representing different sectroal interests . 

(7 ) The terms and conditions of service and the salary and allowances payable to the 
Chairperson , non -officialmembers and staff of the State Commission shall be such as may be 
prescribed. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


647 


Powers and 
functions of 
the State 
Farmers 
Agricultural 
Costs and 
Remunerative 
Price 
Guarantee 
Commission . 


( 8 ) The headquarters of the State Commission shall be at the capital of the State 
Government concerned . 

( 9 ) The Chairperson and the members of the State Commission shall not be a Member 
of Parliament orMember of State Legislature of any State or Union territory, as the case may 
be , or hold any office of profit. 
15 . ( 1 ) The State Commission shall , — 

(a ) recommend to the CentralCommission the guaranteed remunerative minimum 
support price of all agriculture commodities for the State for each year , having regard 
to the factors mentioned in Schedule 1 , ensuring that such recommendation is made 
before the 31st day of January for the upcoming kharif season and before the 30th day 
of June for the upcoming rabi season ; 

(b ) recommend to the State Government higher prices that shall be fixed as the 
State level guaranteed remunerative minimum support price including a bonus as 
specified under section 7 and applicable only within that State , over and above the 
guaranteed remunerative minimum support price notified by the Central Government 
taking into account a minimum fifty per cent. profit margin over any higher cost of 
production in the State , and other policy considerations of incentivizing particular 
crops and commodities for balanced and sustainable agricultural growth ; 

(c ) recommend guaranteed remunerative minimum support price for agricultural 
commodities which have been left out by the Central Commission for any reason ; 

(d ) monitor the price situation in variousmarkets on a regular basis and to send 
advisories based on such monitoring, for appropriate action to be taken , and oversee 
the implementation of such advisories by the State Government for their efficacy ; 

(e ) inquire into failures to discharge duties, on particular public servants and 
authorities as well as contract farming cases and recommend penalties to be imposed 
as per section 26 ; 

(f) recommend to the Central Commission on matters related to the State ; 

(8 )maintain a fund for paying compensation to farmers, as ordered by the Taluka 
Level Committee for non -receipt of guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices 
or delayed payment for sale of agricultural commodity as specified under section 27 ; 
and 

(h ) recommend to the State Government regulation of cost of all agricultural 
inputs including seeds, fertilisers , pesticides, electricity , diesel and farm equipment. 

(2) The State Commission shall publish all relevant information including its cost 
estimations, basis for bonus recommendations, market price trends and ensuing action and 
recommendations, inquiry reports as per sub -section (1 ) above, minutes of its meetings or 
sittings and any other material on its website. 

(3 ) The State Commission shall prepare a report of its functioning of that year under 
this Act and the same shall be submitted to the State Government in such form on or before 
such date asmay be prescribed : 

Provided that the annual report submitted to the State Government by the State 
Commission shall be laid before each House of the State Legislature , as soon as may be , and 
certainly in the ensuing Session of the Legislature , after the same is received by the State 
Government. 

(4 ) The State Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records 
and prepare annual statement of accounts in such form as may be prescribed: 

Provided that the accounts of the State Commission shall be audited annually and the 
audited report shall be placed before each House of the State Legislature , along with the 
annual report. 


648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Constitution 
of State 
Compensation 
Fund . 


Bar on 
auction or 
offer of price 
below 
guaranteed 
remunerative 
minimum 
support 
prices. 


16 . ( 1 ) The State Commission shall, by notification in the Official Gazette , 
constitute and maintain a State Compensation Fund consisting of allocations from 
the Central Government and funds collected as penalties for offences punishable under 
this Act. 

(2 ) The Funds shall be utilized for compensation payments to farmers as required and 
as specified under section 27. 

CHAPTER V 
IMPLEMENTATION OF GUARANTEED REMUNERATIVE MINIMUM SUPPORT PRICES 

17. (1) It shallbe the duty of the appropriate Government to ensure that all agricultural 
markets including Agriculture Produce Market Committee establishment by the State 
Government concerned , the auction or offer price for every agricultural commodity begin 
with the guaranteed remunerative minimum support price as the floor price and no auction 
shall be allowed below the said price . 

(2) Any agreement entered into orally or by any other means, between purchaser/ 
traders or commission agents that directly or indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive 
bidding, that limits, controls or attempts to control the sale or price of or trade in agriculture 
commodities or provision of services in the market or outside market with intent to suppress 
the prices , shall be presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on guaranteed remunerative 
minimum support price and shall be illegal and liable for penalties mentioned under section 25 , 
including cancellation of license by the concerned authorities on complaintby the aggrieved 
farmers or public interest group or upon suo-motu monitoring, public interest groups and 
surveillance by designated public authorities . 

(3) Any trader, including a trader in any contract farming arrangement, purchasing any 
commodity below the guaranteed remunerative minimum support price shall be liable for 
penalties under section 25 including termination of his contract by the State Government s 
designated authority upon due inquiry into any complaint by the aggrieved farmers. 

(4 ) Any trader who abstains from purchasing any agricultural commodity with a view 
to violate the rights conferred on farmers as per the provisions of this Act, especially during 
the quarter succeeding the seasonalharvest of a given commodity shall be liable for penalties 
under section 25 including cancellation of his license by the State Government: 

Provided that any trader may take resort to the grievance redressal mechanism 
prescribed under section 27 . 
18 . The appropriate Government shall 

(a ) open adequate number of procurement centres for all agricultural commodities, 
either directly, or through designated procurementagencies or through trader s bodies, 
self help groups or Farmer Producer Organisations, in a localized manner as far as 
possible , for procuring sufficient quantities for food security schemes and commodity 
corporations at or above guaranteed remunerative minimum support price ; 

(b ) provide adequate arrangements at least four weeks before the beginning of 
the harvest of the particular crop including storage facilities and transportation 
including weighing scales, gunny bags, testing and other required equipment for such 
procurement operations ; 

(c ) ensure instant and same-date payment directly to the farmer by the procurement 
agency ; and 

(d ) ensure sufficient publicity of the procurement centre operations within the 
jurisdiction of such a centre . 


Appropriate 
Government 
to open 
Procurement 
Centres. 


Timely and 
effective 
market 
intervention 
by State 
Government. 


19 . The Central Governmentshall ensure implementation of Timely and Effective 
Market Intervention Schemeby State Governments within two days of fall in market 
prices , in all perishable and other notified agricultural commodities , including potatoes , 
onions, tomatoes and plantation commodities and shall provide sufficient financial 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


649 


outlays to ensure purchases at guaranteed remunerative minimum support price and instant 
payments to the farmers. 
20 . The CentralGovernment shall 

Measures to 

regulate 
(a ) put into place measures to prevent import of subsidized agricultural imports of 
commodities from elsewhere , and by enhancing import duties and other measures ; and agricultural 

commodities. 
(b ) ensure that the landing price of agricultural commodities from other countries 
is at least equal to guaranteed remunerative minimum support price at any given point 
of time. 


21. The appropriate Government shall, - 

Measures to 

prevent 
(a ) implement schemes effectively to prevent farmers from selling agricultural distress sales. 
commodities at low cost due to financial compulsion , including massive increase in 
access to storage facilities to enable all farmers to store their produce and sell at a time 
of remunerative prices ; 

(b ) provide negotiable warehouse receipts to enable the farmers to access finance 
of at least seventy - five per cent of the value of the stored crop valued at guaranteed 
remunerative minimum support price ormarket value whichever is higher; and 

(c ) make available adequate storage facilities and agro -processing facilities to 
traders especially for perishable products to guard against withdrawal of buyers from 
themarket . 

22 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall constitute a Fund to make investments in Investments 
organizing farmers into Farmers or Workers producing Cooperative Societies, Farmer Producer on Farmer 

Producer 
Organisations with sufficient infrastructure and financial capital to run theirmarket enterprises 

Organisations. 
including processed , value -added produce , in a tax free atmosphere : 

Provided that additional incentives shall be provided to Women Farmers Producer 
Organisation . 

23 . The appropriate Government shall take all necessary measures to reduce the cost Measures to 
of production by reducing the input costs through subsidies on inputs , like seed , fertilizer, reduce and 
pesticide , electricity , diesel and farm equipment by promoting low - cost sustainable methods 

regulate input 

costs . 
of agriculture. 

24 . The appropriate Government shall designate and notify specific public authorities Designating 
at all levels from the block level, who shall be responsible for monitoring the prices paid by and notifying 
traders, taking punitive action against those who contravenes the provision of this Act, 

the 

responsible 
opening procurement centres taking up market intervention and payment of compensation 

public 
in time. 

authorities . 


25 . The State Governments shall implement effective mechanism for identifying the Identification 
actual cultivators including tenant farmers , sharecroppers, women farmers and adivasis, by and extension 

efit of benefits to 
registering and issuing them a means of identification , and ensuring that they get the benefit 

actual 
of guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices through procurement and market cultiva 

cultivators. 
intervention and other mechanisms specified in this Act. 

CHAPTER VI 


OFFENCES AND PENALITIES 
26 . (1) Any trader, including a person engaged in a contract farming arrangement,who Offences and 
contravenes the provision of section 17 shall be deemed to have committed a cognizable Penalties. 
offence and shall be punished with , 


(a ) for first time offence , a penalty equal to twice the total deficit suffered by the 
farmers on account of the violation by the trader and imprisonment for a term of three 
months ; 


650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Provision of 
compulsory 
payment of 
compensation 
for not 
obtaining 
guaranteed 
remunerative 
minimum 
support price . 


Constitution 
of Taluka 
level 
Grievance 
redressal; 
Committee 
for payment 
of 
compensation 
to farmers . 


(b ) for second time offence, a penalty equal to twice the total deficit suffered by 
farmers on account of the violation by the trader, and imprisonment for a term of six 
months ; and 

(c ) for third time offence , a penalty equal to three times the total deficit suffered 
by the farmers on account of the violation by the trader and imprisonment for a term of 
one year as well as barring from any future trading for all non -Governmentaltraders . 

(2 ) The public servants and authorities found guilty by the State Commission for not 
discharging their duties diligently or fail to promptly initiate action against traders purchasing 
below guaranteed remunerative minimum support price or effective market intervention or 
fail to provide compensation as specified under section 23 read with section 14 without 
reasonable cause or found to be willfully neglecting his duty , shall be liable to a penalty 
equal to one month s salary, to be deducted from his salary and punished with imprisonment 
for a term of six months . 

CHAPTER VII 

GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL AND COMPENSATION 
27. ( 1) Any farmer who is not paid by the trader the guaranteed remunerative minimum 
support price for his sale of agricultural commodities shall be entitled to a compensation 
payable from the Fund equal to the difference between the guaranteed remunerative minimum 
support price and price obtained by the farmer . 

(2 ) Any farmer who does not get instant and direct payment that fully covers the total 
value of the agricultural commodity sold at guaranteed remunerative minimum support price 
from any buyer including Government procurement agencies such farmer shall be entitled to 
get for compensation fixed at fifteen per cent. on the total payment due from the buyer for 
such delay every month . 

28 . ( 1) The State Commission shall constitute a three Member Grievance Redressal 
Committee at Taluka level to redress complaints from farmers under sub -sections (1) 
and ( 2) of section 27 . 

(2) The Grievance Redressal Committee shall consist of a Taluka level representative 
each from the Department of Agriculture and Marketing of the State Government concerned 
and a farmers representative . 

( 3) The Grievance Redressal Committee shall follow a simple verification procedure as 
prescribed . 

(4) The Grievance Redressal Committee shall resolve each complaintwithin one month 
from the date of receipt of the complaint. 

(5 ) The Grievance Redressal Committee shall issue orders for payment of compensation 
to the farmers from the State Compensation Fund constituted under section 15 . 

CHAPTER VIII 
OBLIGATIONS ON THE CENTRAL AND STATE GOVERNMENTS 
29. (1) The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament 
by law in this behalf, reserve and spend adequate funds for a comprehensive assessment 
of costs for all commodities including by instituting systems for collection of data 
for such agricultural commodities for which such data systems do not exist at that point of 
time. 

(2 ) The Central Government shall provide adequate financial outlays for the effective 
functioning of the Central Commission including primary research and other such work of 
the Commission , as well as for office , infrastructure and day to day functioning. 

( 3) The Central Government shall reserve adequate financial outlays to be transferred 
to designated procurement agencies in time for procurement and market intervention 
operations . 


Central 
Government 
to provide 
adequate 
funds. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


651 


(4 ) The adequacy and utilization of financial outlays may be reviewed by the Central 
Commission on an annual basis, for lower or higher or similar outlays for the subsequent 
budget to be utilised for paymentof compensation to farmers through the State Commissions 
and their State Compensation Fund . 

30 . The State Government shall reserve and provide adequate funds to the State State 
Commission for its efficent functioning and to meet the obligations of fixing any State level Government 

to provide 
guaranteed remunerativeminimum support price over and above the Central Government s 

adequate 
notification of guaranteed remunerative minimum support price . 

funds. 
CHAPTER IX 
MISCELLANEOUS 


31. The provisions of this Act of any rule or order made thereunder shall have effect Overriding 
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any law , or any instrument effect of Act. 
having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act. 

32 . Every member of the Central and the State Commission and the member- Secretary Members 
and other staff appointed under section 12 shall be deemed to be a public servant within the 

and staff of 

Commissions 
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 . 

deemed to be 
public servants. 


45 of 1860. 


remove 


33. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government may, by order , as occasion requires, do anything not inconsistent with the 

difficulties. 
provisions of this Act, which appears to them to be necessary for the purposes of removing 
the difficulty : 

( 2 ) Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of the 
Parliament. 


34. (1 ) The appropriate Government may,by notification in theGazette, make rules for Power to 
the purpose of carrying in to effect the provisions of this Act . 

make rules . 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act by the CentralGovernment shall be laid, as soon as 
may be after it is made , before each House of Parliamentwhile it is in session for a total period 
of fourteen days which may be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and 
if , before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive 
sessions aforesaid both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the 
Houses agree that the rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in 
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so however that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that rule. 


( 3 ) Every rule madeby the State Government under this Act shall laid , as soon as may 
be after it is made, before the State Legislature . 


652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


More than fifty - five per cent. of India s population is principally dependent on 
agriculture for their livelihood. The past two decades, since 1995 , have recorded more than 
3 ,00 ,000 cases of suicides by farmers. Indian Government data shows 12 ,602 farmers killed 
themselves in 2015 alone,mostly owing to economic distress. Indebtedness was responsible 
for 38 .7 per cent. of suicides , while crop failures or the inability to sell produce lead to 
another 19 .5 per cent. of suicides. More than forty -three per cent. of farmers who killed 
themselves in 2015 had small holdings. 


Data reveals that very often , even the cost of production is not recovered by farmers 
in realized prices, whereas the farm family has living expenses in addition to investments in 
farming . At present, the Commission on Agricultural Costs and Prices, for determining the 
Minimum Support Price (MSP ), considers (1 ) Demand and supply ; (2 ) Cost of Production ; 
( 3) Price trends in the market ,both domestic and international; (4 ) Inter crop price parity ; (5 ) 
Terms of trade between agriculture and non -agriculture; (6 ) Likely implication of MSP on 
consumers of that product. Using these various parameters,MSP is often fixed even below 
the cost of production , ignoring the right to life and livelihood of the producer. 

Meanwhile , the food prices for consumers, especially those who are poor, have been 
secured at affordable rates through at least two legislations in the country — the Food Security 
Act, 2013 and the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 . Therefore , there is every reason for price 
determination for farmers to take the sole mandate of securing adequate net returns to a farmer, 
over and above the comprehensive cost of production , rather than considering other parameters. 

In view of the above, to uphold the right to life and livelihood of farmers, which are their 
fundamental rights, it is proposed to constitute National and State Farmers Agricultural Costs 
and Remunerative Price Guarantee Commissions which shall be autonomous body corporates, 
which should , once appointed , not to be under the control of the Central or the State Government 
and the determination of the comprehensive cost of production of the agriculture produce plus 
at least fifty per cent. profit margin as a guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices of 
each and every agricultural commodity by the Commission shall be final. 

To confer such a right to guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices for sale of 
all agricultural Commodities of all farmers , it is expedient to regulate the prices offered by 
traders , and to lay down rules for public authorities for accountable functioning . 


The Central Government takes decisions related to export and import of agricultural 
commodities keeping in view various factors. It is proposed that before taking such decisions, 
the Government should consult the Commission , and also take steps to ensure that the 
landing price of any imported commodity is notbelow the guaranteed remunerative minimum 
support prices fixed for that commodity within India at that point of time. 


It is seen that to confer this legal right on all farmers to guaranteed remunerative 
minimum support prices, a redressal and compensation mechanism is necessary for farmers 
as well as traders . 


It is felt that the right to guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices which 
includes at least fifty per cent profit margin over the comprehensive cost of production will 
boost the morale of the farmer,who would be able to live comfortably , invest in his agricultural 
enterprise thereby potentially increasing productivity and production to ensure national 
food security be able to avoid falling into a debt trap . 

Hence this Bill . 


RAJU SHETTI 


NEW DELHI; 
April 6 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


653 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for sufficient funds by the CentralGovernment for robust , 
accurate systems for cost estimations to be instituted for all agricultural commodities on a 
timely basis . Clause 7 provides for constitution of the Central Farmers Agricultural Costs 
and Remunerative Price Guarantee Commission . Clause 12 provides for constitution of the 
State Farmers Agricultural Costs and Remunerative Price Guarantee Commission . Clause 15 
provides for constitution and maintenance of a State Compensation Fund consists of 
allocations from the Central Government by the State Commission . Clause 18 provides that 
the Central Government shall provide for implementation of timely and effective Market 
Intervention Scheme by State Government within two days of fall in market prices, in all 
perishable and other notified agricultural commodities, including potatoes, onions , tomatoes 
and plantation commodities and shall provide sufficient financial outlays to ensure purchases 
at guaranteed remunerative minimum support price and instant payments to the farmers . 
Clause 21 provides that appropriate Government shall constitute a fund to make investments 
in organizing farmers into Farmers or Workers Producing Cooperative, and other Farmer 
Producer Organisations, with sufficient infrastructure and financial capital to run their market 
enterprises. Clause 22 provides that appropriate Government shall take all necessary measures 
to reduce the cost of production by reducing the input costs through subsidies on inputs, 
like seed , fertilizer, pesticide, electricity , diesel and farm equipmentby promoting low -cost 
sustainable methods of agriculture. Clause 27 provides for setting up of a three Member 
Grievance Redressal Committee at Taluka level to redress complaints from farmers. Clause 29 
provides that the Central Government shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by 
law in this behalf , reserve and spend adequate funds for a comprehensive assessment of 
costs for all commodities including by instituting systems for collection of data for such 
agricultural commodities. Clause 30 provides that the State Governments shall reserve and 
provide adequate outlays for the State Commission to function effectively and to meet the 
obligations of fixing any State level guaranteed remunerative minimum support price over 
and above the CentralGovernment s notification of guaranteed remunerative minimum support 
price . The Bill , therefore if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of 
India. However at this stage it is not possible to estimate the exact amount which is likely to 
be incurred towards recurring and non -recurring expenditure for the purpose . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 34 of the Bill empowers the appropriate Government to make rules for carrying 
out the purpose of this Act. As the rules will relate to matters of detail only, the delegation of 
legislative power is, therefore , of a normal character . 


654 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Bill No. 128 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for the stabilization of population in the country through setting up of 
a National Population Planning Authority at the national level and a District 
Population Planning Committee in each district to encourage and promote 
family planning in order to ensure a population which is in tandem and 
commensurate with the resources and development of our nation, to 

improve health of the women and empower them , recognizing 
both men and women as an important stakeholder in the 
family planning process, to improve standard of living 
of the citizens and for the matters connected 

therewith and incidental thereto . 


Short title , 
extent and 
commencement. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 
1. (1) This Act may be called the Population (Stabilization & Planning) Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India , except the State of Jammu & Kashmir . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date , as the CentralGovernmentmay ,by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


655 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, 

Definitions. 
(a ) “ appropriate Government” means in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(b ) “ annual report” means the report prepared by the NationalPopulation Planning 
Authority ; 

(c) “ Authority ” means the National Population Planning Authority constituted 
under section 4 ; 

(d ) “ Committee” means the District Population Planning Committee constituted 
under section 11; 

(e ) “medicine” means medicine prescribed by a certified medical practitioner for 
sterilization and matters connected therewith and incidental thereto ; 

(f) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 

(g ) " public servant” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under 
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 ; and 

(h ) “ small family ” means a family having two children or less. 
3. For the purpose of this Act , every healthcare professional shall be deemed to be a Healthcare 
“ public servant” . 

professionals 
to be deemed 
public servant. 


4 . (1) The Government shall , within one year of the coming in force of this Act, establish a Constitution 
National Population Planning Authority for carrying out the purpose of this Act . 

of National 

Population 
(2 ) The Authority which shall consist of: 

Planning 

Authority . 
( a ) Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare — ex -officio Chairperson; 
(b ) Chairperson , National Commission for Women — ex -officio Member ; 
(c ) Secretary ,Ministry of Women and Child Development — ex -officio Member; 

(d ) Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment — ex -officio 
Member; 

(e ) Secretary, Ministry of Human Resource Development — Member ; and 

(f) two persons, with experience of at least fifteen years in the social sector, one 
of whom shallbe a woman . 

( 3 ) The Central Government shall appoint such number of officers and staff as it 
considers necessary for the functioning of the Authority ; 

(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to , and terms and conditions of services of the 
members , officers and staff of the Authority shall be such as may be prescribed . 

5. (1 ) The Authority shallmeet at such times and places as appointed by the Chairperson Meetings of 
and shall abide by such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business at its meetings, the Authority . 
as may be prescribed ; 

(2 ) The expenditure incurred for the meetings shall be borne out of the funds provided 
to it by the Central Government. 
6 . (1 ) The Authority shall, — 

Functions of 

the National 
(a ) prepare a plan for family planning in the country, which shall include; 

Population 

Planning 
(i) conducting surveys across the country; 

Authority . 
(ii) formulating a strategy to specifically target the regions with high 
maternal and infantmortality rate ; 


656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


( iii) specific identification of the high density and high Total Fertility Rate 
( TFR ) areas and formulate plans for such regions accordingly ; 

( iv ) creating a mechanism for ensuring quality medicine procurement; 

(v) preparing a strategy for ensuring equal participation ofboth male and 
female in the sterilization process; 

(vi) evolving schemes for encouraging participation of both the male and 
the female in the family planning process ; 

(vii) preparing a plan for the counselling of the male and the female , to be 
implemented by the District Population Planning Committee; 

(viii) preparing a strategy to popularize and promote spacing of at least 
two years between two children ; 

(ix ) framing school curriculum on the population stabilization and provide 
for a mechanism of inclusion of the same; 


(b ) create awareness on the benefits of a small family through various programs; 
(c) provide for a framework for the training of the healthcare professionals; 

( d ) examine , recommend and formulate a strategy for integration and convergence 
of the existing schemes; and 


(e ) perform any other function , which the CentralGovernment may prescribe 
from time to time. 


Incentives for 
adhering to 
small family 
norm . 


(2) The Authority shall strive to promote the small family norm and suggestmeasures 
to discourage violation of the small family norm . 

7 . (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the timebeing in force , every 
person , who adopts the small family norm , shall be entitled to — 

(a ) one additional increment as incentive if the person is employed with the 
Central or the State Government; 


(b ) free healthcare at all the public healthcare institutions for the entire family ; 


and 


( c) receive such other benefits as may be prescribed by the CentralGovernment 
from time to time. 

( 2 ) If either or both the children are female , the female child or children , as the case may 
be , shall be entitled to free education till the graduation level, the assistance for which shall 
be provided by the appropriate Government. 

8 . TheGovernment shall strive to promote a spacing of at least two years between from 
the date of delivery of the first child and the onset of second pregnancy . 


Promote 
spacing in 
child births . 


9 . The appropriate Government shall ensure that people have access to quality and 
affordable contraceptive medicines, 
affordable contraceptive medicines and healthcare pertaining to family planning and matters 
incidental and consequential thereto . 


Appropriate 
Government 
to ensure 
access to 
quality and 
affordable 
medicines , 
healthcare. 


Designating 
women as 
head of the 
household in 
welfare 
programmes . 


10 . ( 1) The appropriate Government shall , as far as possible, designate the eldest 
married woman in the household as the head of the household under various welfare 
programmes. 


SEC. 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


657 


11. ( 1) The appropriate Government shall constitute a District Population Planning Constitution 
Committee in every district for purposes of this Act . 

of District 

Population 
( 2 ) The Committee shall consist of - 

Planning 

Committee . 
( a ) the District Collector — ex - officio Chairman ; 
(b ) the Chief Medical Officer of the district — ex -officio Member ; 
(c ) One representative of the Municipal Council — ex -officio Member; 

(d ) two persons with an experience of at least ten years in social sector, at least 
one of whom shall be a woman . 

( 3) For the purpose of appointments of persons under clause (d ) the appropriate 
Government shall consult public representatives of the concerned district. 
12. (1) The Committee shall , — 

Functions of 

the District 
(a ) implement the policies and plans formulated by the National Population Committee. 
Planning Authority ; 

(b ) coordinate and consult with the village Panchayat for formulation and 
implementation of the plan at the village level; 

(c) provide counselling facilities to male and female pertaining to family planning 
and matters incidental and consequential thereto through healthcare professionals ; 

(d ) to carry out an annual survey to collect data on small families in the district; 

(e) distribute contraceptives through health - care centres and Non -Governmental 
Organizations; 

(A) organize sterilization camps; 
(8 ) publicize benefits of having a small family ; 

(h ) engage with Non -Governmental Organizations and other social groups for 
promoting the small family norm ; 

(i) recommend to the appropriate Government from time to time regarding 
measures to be taken to encourage family planning measures and improve the standard 
of living ; and 

(j) perform any other function ,which the appropriate Governmentmay prescribe , 
from time to time. 

(2 ) The Committee shall take into account the representation made before it by the 
village Panchayat representatives, to be nominated by the village Panchayat, at least one of 
whom shall be a woman . 

13 . The Central Government shall , after due consultation with the concerned State Central 
Governments , and after due appropriation made by the Parliament in this behalf, provide Government to 

provide funds. 
requisite funds for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

14 . ( 1) The Authority shall publish once every year, a report in such form and manner Publication of 
as may be prescribed. 

Annual 

Report . 
(2 ) The Central Government shall cause such report to be laid before each House of 
Parliament as soon as it is received . 

15 . The provisions of this Act shall notbe in derogation of any other law for the time Act not in 
being in force. 

derogation of 

other law . 
16 . If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central Power to 
Government, in consultation with the State Governments,may make such order or give such remove 

difficulty . 
direction , not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act , as appears to it be necessary or 
expedient for removing any difficulty : 


658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Power to 
make rules. 


Provided that no such other shall be made under this section after the expiry of three 
years from the date of commencement of this Act. 

17 . (1 ) The CentralGovernmentmay , by notification , in the OfficialGazette , make rules 
for carrying out purposes of this Act. 

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament, while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that the 
rule should notbe made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified from or be 
of no effect , as the case may be; so , however, that any such modification or annulment shall 
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


659 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The census of 2011 estimated India s population to be around one hundred and twenty 
one crores , which , by 2017 is estimated to come closer to one hundred and thirty crores. As 
per Registrar General of India , by 2026 , India s population will be 139.9 crore . India , at present, 
is world s second most populated country and is set to overtake China by 2030 . India accounts 
for only 2.4 per cent of the total area of the world , while accounting for 16 .9 per cent. of its 
total population , which represents the huge stress that is being created on the resources of 
the nation . Such high level of population has further caused and continues to cause high 
levels of inequality , poverty , hunger and deterioration in standard of living , which is evident 
from India s miserable performance on the indicators of Human Development Index (HDI) 
and others. 


Article 38 of the Indian Constitution puts the onus on the State to secure a social order 
for the promotion of welfare of the people which includes reduction of inequalities in income, 
status, facilities and opportunities. However, the existing levels of population make it difficult 
to achieve the goals stated under the Directive Principles of the State Policy, whereby State 
is overburdened with the responsibility of creating enormous infrastructure to sustain such 
high population, besides other stresses such as ensuring healthcare , reducing poverty and 
improving quality of life ,while the resources to provide such facilities remain limited and 
continue to deplete with the rising level of population. 

In the light of the given situation , it is imperative that appropriate steps be taken to 
stabilize and control the tremendous growth of population so as to distribute the resources 
more equally and equitably and to improve the standard of living of the people of India . Such 
a policy is a requirementof the time so that the Directive principles of State Policy could be 
put in the policy framework in their spirit . There is also a need to recognize the equal 
participation of both male and female in the family planning process and need for empowering 
women in the decision making process . Emphasis has also to be laid on the educational 
levels across the country, especially in the regions ofhigh Total Fertility Rate ( TFR ).Moreover, 
it is also imperative to ensure that the related medicines are available at affordable rates and 
that responsibilities are established in the cases of violation of norms by the healthcare 
professionals. 

The Bill effectively provides for the setting up of a National Population Planning 
Authority and a Committee at the district level,measures which shall be initiated to stabilize 
and do planning for the population in the country through measures such as spreading 
education , awareness, empowerment of women and recognition of both male and the female 
as equal partners in the family planning process . The Bill is a significant step towards the 
overall development of the nation and ensuring economic as well as social equality . 

Hence this Bill. 


SUSHIL KUMAR SINGH 


NEW DELHI ; 
April 06 , 2018 


660 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 4 of the Bill provides for the establishment of a National Population Planning 
Authority and appointment of such officers and staffs for its functioning. Clause 5 ( 2 ) provides 
for the CentralGovernment to bear the expenditure incurred for the meetings of the authority . 
Clause 7 provides for incentives for small family norm . Clause 9 provides for the appropriate 
Government to ensure access to quality and affordable medicines, healthcare. Clause 11 
provides for the constitution of a District Population Planning Committee . Clause 13 makes 
it obligatory for the Central Government to provide requisite funds for carrying out the 
purposes of the Bill. The Bill , therefore , if enacted , will involve an expenditure of rupees five 
thousand crore per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 


three hundred crore is also likely to be 


A non -recurring expenditure to the tune of 
involved. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 17 of the Bill empowers the Central Government to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will related to matters of details only, the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


661 


Bill No. 132 OF 2018 


Short title . 


A Bill further to amend the constitution of India . 
Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty - ninth Year ofthe Republic of India as follows: 
1 . This Actmay be called the Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 
2. In the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution , — 

(i) in List II-State List, entry12 shall be omitted ; 

(ii) in List III - Concurrent List , after entry 25 ,the following entry shall be inserted , 
namely : 


Amendment 
of the Seventh 
Schedule . 


“ 25A . Libraries, museums and other similar institutions controlled or financed 
by the State ; ancient and historicalmonuments and records other than those declared 
by or under law made by Parliament to be of national importance .” . 


662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


As per the Constitution , the subject “ libraries” forms the part of the State List. If the 
Union Government wants to have a library legislation at national level, it has to amend the 
Constitution by shifting the item of libraries from State List to the Concurrent List. 

The Government of India appointed a Committee in the year 1948 to suggest the 
possibilities of establishing a National Central Library at New Delhi. Dr. S .R . Ranganathan as 
a member of the Committee prepared “ Draft Library Bills for Union and Constituent States ” . 
Later, the CentralGovernment did not take decision to pass a Union Library Bill. 

Since independence , only nineteen out of twenty -nine States have passed the library 
legislation through Public Library Acts in their respective States . Due to lack of funds, 
resources and trained manpower, majority of public libraries in the country are in pathetic 
condition . 

The Working Group of Libraries under National Knowledge Commission in its 2006 
Report entitled “ Libraries : Gateways to Knowledge — A roadmap for revitalisation ” 
recommended that “ In order to facilitate the coordinated development of libraries across 
different sectors and to provide the legislative framework , required legal support and financial 
backing to the Library Sector, the Government could , in course of time, consider including 
libraries in the Concurrent List of the Constitution of India . This should be done without in 
any way abrogating the existing responsibilities of the States towards libraries” . 

Due to partial and ineffective implementation of State legislation , a National Library 
Legislation is needed to bring in a robust legislative framework to make India a knowledge 
society. 

The Bill, therefore, seeks to amend the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution with a 
view to transfer entry 12 of List-II , State List pertaining to ‘ Libraries ’, to List -III , Concurrent 
List so that the Parliament and the CentralGovernment can also play vital role in the overall 
development of a National Library Policy , systems and services in the country . 

The Bill seeks to achieve the above objective. 


TEJ PRATAP SINGH YADAV 


NEW DELHI; 
June 29 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


663 


Bill No. 129 OF 2018 


A Bill to amend the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Short title , and 
Citizens (Amendment) Act, 2018 . 

commencement. 
( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the officialGazette, appoint. 

2 . After Chapter V of the Maintenance and Welfare of Senior Citizens Act, 2007 , the Insertion of 
following Chapter and sections there under shall be inserted , namely : 

new Chapter 
VA . 


664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


" CHAPTER VA 


and 


PROTECTION OF SENIOR CITIZENS FROM LONELINESS 
Database of 

23A . (1) Every State Government shall prepare and maintain a confidential district 
senior citizens wise digital database of senior citizens living alone. 
living alone . 

(2 ) Any unauthorised access to the database of senior citizens living alone or 
attempt thereof shall be an offence punishable with a fine which may extend upto one 
lakh rupees or with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend upto six months or 

both . 
Interactional 23B . (1) The State Government shall establish sufficient number of senior citizen 

centers in each district. 
recreational 
facilities for 

(2 ) The senior citizen centers established under sub -section ( 1) shall provide 
senior citizen 

interactional, recreational and such other facilities to senior citizens as may be 
living alone . 

prescribed . 

( 3 ) Where oldage homes have been established under section 19 of this Act, the 

facilities under sub - section ( 2 )may be provided at such oldage homes. 
Regular visits 23C . The State Government shall depute officials or volunteers who shall regularly 
to senior visit senior citizens living alone and perform the following functions , namely : 
citizens living 
alone. 

(a ) organising social interaction activities for such senior citizens; 
(b ) updating the database of senior citizens living alone; 

(c ) aiding the local police administration in providing adequate security to such 

senior citizens . 
Counseling of 23D . ( 1) All establishments shall provide counselling to their retiring employees 
retiring 

regarding post-retirement life and the need for social interaction . 
individuals and 
individuals 

( 2) The appropriate Government shall provide counseling regarding elderly life and 
approaching need for social interaction to all individuals , except those covered under sub - section ( 1 ), 
sixty years of approaching the age of sixty years . ” . 


age . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


665 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


India has a sizeable population of senior citizens. Therefore, the legislative bodies 
have been mindful of the needs of senior citizens. The Parliament enacted the maintenance 
and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act in the year 2007 which has proved to be a 
landmark enactment to serve the interests of senior citizens. While the need to meet physical 
requirements of senior citizens is addressed , a major problem that afflicts them and often 
goes unattended is loneliness in their lives. 


With the advent of globalisation , the joint family system is on the decline. Children 
often have to leave their parents behind in pursuit of employment. As a result, senior citizens 
are forced to live a life of solitude. Modern social life offers little opportunities of social 
interaction to people at the dusk of their lives .Loneliness in life is not just a problem in itself, 
it brings with it a host of psychological and health issues. People living alone are more 
vulnerable to depression . There is ample evidence to prove that such persons sooner or later 
develop life- style diseases. A study has found that the risk of Alzheimer s dementia was more 
than double in lonely elderly individuals compared to those who were not lonely . 

In order to protect senior citizens from loneliness and its harmful effects, the Bill 
therefore , seeks to amend the parent Act with a view to : 

(i) provide that the State Government shall provide interactional and recreational 
facilities to senior citizens where they can interact with other people ; 

( ii ) make arrangement of regular visits to senior citizens living alone by officials 
or volunteers appointed by the State Government in order to address their needs for 
social interaction and security ; 

(iii ) provide for counselling regarding elderly life and the need for social 
interaction to retiring employees and individuals approaching sixty years of age; and 

( iv ) provide for creation of a database of senior citizens living alone and to 
provide for its confidentiality so as to prevent misuse of such database . 
The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects . 


BHARTRUHARIMAHTAB 


NEW DELHI; 
July 2 , 2018. 


666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


Clause 2 of the Bill vide proposed section 23A provides for creation of a digital data 
base of senior citizens living alone ; it also vide proposed section 23B provides for interactional 
and recreational facilities for senior citizens living alone ; and vide proposed section 23D , it 
also seeks to provide for counselling facilities to retiring individuals and individuals 
approaching the age of sixty years . 

The Bill , therefore , if enacted , will involve expenditure outof the Consolidated Fund of 
India . A recurring expenditure of rupees five crore is likely to be involved from the 
Consolidated fund of India . A non - recurring expenditure of about rupees two crore is also 
likely to be involved. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


667 


Bill No. 130 OF 2018 
A Bill to provide for the constitution of a National Council of Professional Social Work 
Practitioners for the coordination, development and regulation of professional 
social work practice in India and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental 

thereto . 
Beit enacted by Parliamentin the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the National Council of Professional Social Work Short title , 
Practitioners Act, 2018 . 

extent and 

commencement. 
(2) It extends to the whole of India. 

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay , by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint. 


668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Definitions . 


2 . In this Act unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a ) "Chairperson " means the Chairperson of the National Council or the State 
Council, as the case may be ; 

(b ) " ex -officio Member" means the seven members nominated by the Central 
Government under section 3 ; 

(c ) "National Council" means the National Council of Professional Social Work 
Practitioners constituted under section 3; 

(d ) " post graduate social work teacher" means a qualified professional social 
work teacher teaching at post graduate level; 

( e ) " prescribed " means prescribed by regulations made under this Act; 

(1) " professional social work practitioner" means a person who is a social work 
degree holder and whose name has been entered in the Register maintained under 
section 6 ; 

(8) "member" means a member appointed under this Act; 

(h ) "member - Secretary " meansmember secretary of the National Council or the 
State Council , as the case may be ; 

(i) " recognized institution " means an institution recognized by the National 
Council under this Act; 

(1) " Register" means register of professional social work practitioners maintained 
by each State Council under section 6 ; 

(k) " regulation " means regulation made under this Act; 

(1) " social work degree holder " means a person who has obtained a prescribed 
degree in Social Work from any of the recognized University or institution in India or 
abroad ; 

(m ) " State Council " means State Council of Professional Social Work Practitioners 
constituted under section 5 ; and 

(n ) " Vice -Chairperson " means the Vice -Chairperson of the National Council or 
the State Council, as the case may be . 

3 . ( 1 ) The Central Government shall ,by notification in the OfficialGazette, constitute 
a National Council to be known as the National Council for Professional Social Work 
Practitioners for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 
(2 ) The National Council shall consist of — 

( a ) a Chairperson ; 
(b ) a Vice- Chairperson ; 
(c ) a member - Secretary ; and 

(d ) seven persons as ex - officio Members 
to be appointed by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed : 

Provided that the Chairperson , Vice- Chairperson and member-Secretary except the 
ex - officio members shall be a professional social work practitioner registered under 
section 6 : 


Constitution 
of National 
Council for 
Professional 
Social Work 
Practitioners . 


Provided further that twenty per cent. of the members of the National Council 
shall be post graduate social work teachers with not less than ten years of teaching 
experience . 


( 3 ) The National Council shall have its headquarters at such place as may be notified 
by the Central Government in such manner asmay be prescribed . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


669 


of National 


(4 ) The term of office of the Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson , member- Secretary and 
ex - officio members shall be for five years and they shall also be eligible for 
reappointment: 

Provided that no person shall be elected for more than two consecutive terms. 

( 5 ) The Central Government shall appoint such number of officers and staff to the 
National Council as it deem necessary for carrying out functions assigned to it under this 
Act. 

(6 ) The Salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson ,member-Secretary , ex -officio members and officers and staff 
of the National Council shall be such as may be prescribed . 

(7 ) Any casual vacancy in the National Council shall be filled in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act and the person so appointed shall hold office only for the remaining 
term for which the member in whose place he has been appointed may have held office . 

4 . The National Council shall be a body corporate by the nameof National Council for Incorporation 
Professional Social Work having perpetual succession and common seal, with power to of N 
acquire, hold and dispose of property , both movable and immovable and to contract, and 

Council . 
shall by the said name sue and be sued . 

5 . ( 1 ) The State Government shall , by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Constitution 
State Council each to be known as the State Council for Professional Social Work Practitioners of State 

Councils for 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

Professional 
(2 ) The State Council shall consist of — 

Social Work 

Practitioners . 
(a ) a Chairperson ; 
(b ) a Vice-Chairperson ; 
( c ) a member -Secretary ; and 

(d ) four persons as ex -officio -members, 
to be appointed by the State Government concerned in such manner as may be 
prescribed : 

Provided that the Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson and member- Secretary except the 
ex - officio members shall be a professional social work practitioner registered under 
section 6 . 

( 3 ) The State Council shall have its headquarters at such place as may be notified by 
the State Governments concerned in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(4 ) The term of office of the Chairperson , Vice - Chairperson , Member-Secretary 
and ex - officio Members shall be for five years and they shall also be eligible for 
reappointment: 

Provided that no person shall be elected for more than two consecutive terms. 

(5 ) The State Government concerned shall appoint such number of officers and staff 
to the State Council as it deem necessary for carrying out functions assigned to it under 
this Act. 

(6 ) The Salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson ,Member-Secretary , ex -officio Members and officers and staff 
of the State Council shall be such as may be prescribed. 

6 . ( 1 ) The State Government shall cause to bemaintained a Register to be known as the Register of 
Register of Professional Social Work Practitioners practicing social work within their Professional 

Social Work 
jurisdiction in such form and manner as may be prescribed . 

Practitioners . 
(2 ) Every professional social work practitioner shall register himself in the Register 
maintained under sub -section ( 1) in such manner as may be prescribed . 

(3 ) The Register maintained under sub - section ( 1) shall contain such details of the 
professional social work practitioners as may be prescribed . 


670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Incorporation 
of State 
Councils. 


( 4 ) The State Governments shall forward a copy every year of the Register 
maintained under sub - section ( 1) to the CentralGovernment for record . 

7 . The State Social Work Council shall be a body corporate by the name of State Social 
Work Council having perpetual succession and common seal, with power to acquire , hold 
and dispose of property, both movable and immovable and to contract, and shall by the said 
name sue and be sued . 


Disqualification . 


8 . No person shall be registered as member of a National Council or a State Council if 


he 


Meetings of 
the National 
Council and 
the State 
Council . 


(a ) does not possess the prescribed degree in social work ; 
(b ) is , or becomes person of unsound mind ; 

(c) is or has been convicted for any offence by the court of law involving moral 
turpitude; 

(d ) is or at any time has been adjudicated as insolvent; 
(e ) is declared by court of law to be otherwise incompetent; 

(f) is proved to have violated the code of ethics, rules, regulations and 
guidelines of the National Council. 

9. (1) TheNational Council or the State Council, as the case may be , shall meet at such 
time and places and shall observe such rules of procedure in regard to the transaction of 
business at its meetings (including the quorum ) as may be prescribed : 

Provided that the Council (National or State ) shallmeet at least twice every year. 

(2 ) The Chairperson , and in the absence of the Chairperson ,the Vice - Chairperson , and 
in the absence of both Member - Secretary shall preside over the meeting of the Council 
(National or State ): 

Provided that in absence of the Chairperson , Vice -Chairperson and Member 
Secretary, any member agreed to by themembers of the Council shall preside over themeeting . 

(3) Every decision of the Council (National or State) shall be taken by a majority of 
votes of the members present and voting and in the event of any equality of votes , the 
person presiding themeeting shall have a second and casting vote . 

10 . ( 1) The National Council and the State Council shall constitute an Executive 
Committee , a Disciplinary Committee and such other Committees as that Council deems 
necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) The Constitution , function , powers and terms and conditions of the Committees 
and its members shall be such as may be prescribed . 
11 . The National Council shall 

(a ) safeguard the rights , privileges and interest of professional social workers 
registered with the Council; 

(b ) draw up a code of ethics and code of conduct for social work professional 
and mechanism for their enforcement; 

(c) prepare, maintain and implement professional standards for social work 
practices in India ; 


Constitution 
of Executive 
Disciplinary 
and other 
Committees . 


Functions of 
the National 
Council 


( d ) establish and lay down the procedure to be followed by disciplinary 
committee constituted under section 9 ; 

(e ) exercise general supervision and control over State Councils ; 
(1) act as a nodal agency for social work in India; 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


671 


(g ) facilitate networking among socialwork professionals at the micro and macro 
levels to work towards development of both at individual level and at the community 
level; 

(h ) assess the professional social work human power needs in the country 
including identification of positions to be filled by social work professionals only ; 

(i) promote social work education and practice and lay standards of such 
education and practice in consultation with the Universities in India and State Boards 
of Education imparting such education and State Councils; 

(j) recognize Universities and institutions whose course shall be qualification 
for registering as a professional social work practitioner and for that purpose to visit 
and inspect Universities and institutions ; 

(k ) coordinate and interact with International Social Work Bodies , Universities, 
United Nations Agencies and other Developmental Agencies in the area of Social 
Work and related areas; 

(1) recognize basic foreign qualifications in social work obtained outside India 
for the purpose of admission as a professional social worker; 

(m ) undertake scientific studies, researches, consultation , workshops , 
publications relating to various fields of social work education , training and practice 
and disseminate results thereof ; 

(n ) promote interact between professional social work and allied disciplines or 
professions in the area of teaching, training, workshops, research , extension , 
publication , dissemination of knowledge , skills and practice ; 

(0 ) manage the funds of the Council ; 
(p ) provide for election of its members ; and 

(q ) perform all other functions conferred on it for improving and promoting 
social work practice by or under this Act. 
12 . The State Council shall, — 


Functions of 
the State 
Council. 


( a ) function as the State unit of the National Council; 


(b ) register persons as social workers on its register and issue registration 
certificate thereto ; 


(c) maintain a Register of professional social work practitioners as mentioned 
under section 6 ; 

(d ) constitute disciplinary committees ; 


( e ) entertain and determine cases of misconduct against professional social 
workers ; 


(f) safeguard the rights , privileges and interests of professional social workers 
registered with it; 


(g ) manage and invest funds of Council ; and 

(h ) perform all other functions conferred on it by or under this Act. 
13. Subject to the conditions and restrictions prescribed under this Act every person Right to 
whose name is for the time being registered on the Register of any State Council shall be Practice . 
entitled according to his qualifications to practice social work in any part of India and 
recover in due course in respect of such practice any expenses, charges to which he is 
entitled to . 


672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Right of 
persons 
registered as 
Professional 
Social 
Worker. 


1 of 1872 . 


Disciplinary 
Committees. 


14 . No person other than persons registered as professional soical work practitioner 
shall : 

(a ) practice professional social work in India ; 

(b ) hold office which has been identified for professional social workers as it 
involves discharging social work ; 

(c) be entitled to give evidence at any court of law , tribunal or authority empowered 
to take evidence on oath as an expert under section 45 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 
on any matter related to social work ; 

(d ) be entitled to sign or authenticate certificates required by law to be signed or 
authenticated by a duly qualified socialworker. 

15 . ( 1) The State disciplinary Committee constituted under section 10 shall , either suo 
moto or on receipt of a complaint, hear the cases of misconduct of professional social work 
practitioners registered with that State Council. 

( 2) The State Disciplinary Committee shall suggest appropriate action including the 
action for removing the name of person from the Register. 

(3 ) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the State Disciplinary Committee may 
appeal to the National Disciplinary Committee constituted under section 10 . 

(4) The State Disciplinary Committee or the National Disciplinary Committee , as the 
case may be , shall follow the principle of natural justice while hearing cases or appeals in 
cases of misconduct. 

16 . ( 1) The National or State Council shall, as the case may be, by notification in the 
Official Gazette , constitute a Fund to which shall be credited any grants , donations , gifts, or 
benefactions from Government, public undertakings, national and international bodies or 
agencies , corporations, universities, boards , trusts, societies, companies and banking 
institutions. 

( 2 ) All receipts of the Council (National or State ) shall be credited to the Fund and all 
payments by the Councils shall be made therefrom . 

( 3 ) All funds shall be received only through Bank Accounts opened in nationalized 
banks. 

17 . Every professionals social work practitioner for his registration in the Register and 
institutions for its recognition under this Act shall be charged an appropriate fee as may be 
prescribed . 


Funds of the 
National and 
State Council 


Fee for 
registration 
recognition of 
institutions 


Accounts and 
Audits. 


18 of 2013. 


18 . ( 1) The Council (National or State ) shall prepare, in such form and in such time each 
year as may be prescribed , a budget in respect of the financial year ensuing showing the 
estimated receipts and expenditure. 

(2 ) Every Council (National or State ) shall cause to be maintained such books of 
accounts and other books in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed . 

( 3) The accounts of Council (National or State ) shall be audited by auditors duly 
qualified to act as auditors of companies under the Companies Act, 2013, at such times and 
in such manner as may be prescribed . 

19 . The Council (National or State ) shall prepare and submit an Annual Report , in such 
form in such manner and at such time asmay be prescribed , giving a true and full account of 
its activities during the previous year to the CentralGovernment or the State Government, as 
the case may be, who shall cause the Report to be laid before both the Houses of Parliament 
or State legislature , as the case may be . 

20. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Chairperson , 
Vice - Chairperson ,Member-Secretary and ex -officio Members of the Councils (National or 
State ) or members of committees constituted by the Councils under section 10 or officer of 
the Council for anything done in good faith or intention under this Act. 


Annual 
Report . 


Protection of 
action taken 
in good faith . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


673 


21 . (1 ) The National Councilmay, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, Power to 
make regulations generally for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

make 

regulation . 
(2 ) In particular without prejudice to the generality of this power, such regulations may 
provide for all or any of the following matter namely : 

(a ) the manner of appointment of the Chairperson , Member-Secretary and other 
members of the Council; 

(b ) the powers and duties of Chairperson , Vice- Chairperson ,Member-Secretary 
and other members of the Council; 

(c) the termsand conditions of office of Chairperson , Vice- Chairperson ,Member 
Secretary and other members of the Council; 

( d ) the constitution of Committees of the Council ; 

(e ) the staff requirements of the Councils and the terms and conditions of service 
of such staff ; 


(f) the management of funds and property of the State Social Work Councils and 
maintenance of audit and of its accounts; 


( g) the form of annual reports ; 
(h ) the procedure of elections ; 
(i) the manner , quorum and the procedure of meetings of the councils; 


(j) the appointment of ex - officio Members ; and 


(k ) such other matter as it deem necessary for carrying out the purposes of this 


Act. 


( 3) Every regulation made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is 
made, before each House of Parliament ,while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days 
which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before 
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions 
aforesaid , both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses 
agree that the rule should not be made , the regulation shall thereafter have effect only in 
such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be ; so however, that any such 
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously 
done under that regulation . 


674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENTOF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Social work education was started in India in the year 1936 at the Tata Institute of 
Social Sciences , Mumbai. Within the eighty or so years it has spread over to hundreds of 
colleges all over the India . Lakhs of social work professionals are practicing as counselors , 
medical social workers, psychiatric social workers , programme officers, project 
coordinators , researches, social work teachers and so on in various fields. It is a profession 
providing individual care and services to the people that demands the principle of confiden 
tiality, individualization , acceptance and nonjudgemental attitude. It can be ensurred only 
through a professional code of ethics, which can be realized by a National Professional 
Social Work Council. In India , so far no legislation has been enacted in this regard . Social 
Work being a professional service invariably demands Union legislation at the earliest . 

A legislation to ensure the rights of the stakeholders , protecting the evidence based 
practice as well as the rights , accountability and responsibilities of the service providers and 
service users as well are the need of the hour. 

Developed nations like the USA , Canada, UK and Australia have their professional 
Council constituted to regulate the practice of professional social work in their respective 
field . 

The Bill , therefore , with a view to regulate , coordinate and develop professional 
social work practice in the country provides for 

(a ) constitution of a National Professional Social Work Practitioner Council and 
State Professional Social Work Practitioner Councils ; 

(b ) formulation of a code of ethics for the practice of professional social work in 
India ; 

(c) registration of professional social work practitioner ; 

(d ) regulation of professional social work education and institutions offering 
courses in professional social work ; 

(e ) licensing and regulation of the institutions practicing professional social 
work ; and 

(f) conferring certain rights on professional social work practitioners. 
Hence this Bill. 
NEW DELHI; 

RICHARD HAY 
July 3 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


675 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Cluase 3 of the Bill provides for constitution of the National Professional Social Work 
Practitioner Council. It also provides for appointment of Chairperson, Vice - Chairperson , 
Member- Secretary and ex -officio Members to the Council. Clause 5 provides for constitution 
of the State Professional Social Work Practitioner Council. Clause 6 provides formaintenance 
of a Register of professional social work Practitioners. Clause 10 provides for constitution 
of Executive Committee and Disciplinary Committees by the National Council and the State 
Council . Clause 16 provides for the constitution of Fund by the National Council and the 
State Council . The Bill , therefore, if enacted , will involve expenditure from the Consolidated 
Fund of India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees thirty crores would involve as a recurring 
expenditure per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 

A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees twenty crores is also likely to be involved . 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 21 of the Bill empowers the National counsil to make regulations for carrying 
out the purposes of the Bill. As the regulations will relate to matters of detail only , the 
delegation of legislative power is of a normal character. 


676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Bill No. 82 OF 2018 


A Bill to provide for regulation of fee in private schools with a view to make education 

accessible to all and for matters connected therewith . or incidental thereto . 


Short 
title ,extent 
and 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Sixty -ninth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows: 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Private Schools (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2018 . 
(2 ) It extends to the whole of India. 


commencement. 


( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the CentralGovernmentmay, by notification 
in the OfficialGazette , appoint. 


Sec . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


677 


Definitions. 


2. In this Act , unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) “ academic year” means the year specified by the appropriate Government 
or, as the case may be, any Board or Council to which respective school is affiliated ; 

(b ) “ aided school” means a school receiving any kind of recurring grant or 
assistance in monetary or non -monetary form , from the appropriate Government or 
the concerned authority for defraying its expenditure ; 

(c ) “ appropriate Government” means, in the case of a State, the Government of 
that State and in all other cases, the Central Government; 

(d ) “ child ” means a child who has not completed the age of fourteen years; 

(e) “ fee” means the amount fixed as fee including tuition fee , library fee , gymkhana 
fee, examination fee , development fee or amount payable for any curricular or co 
curricular activities , laboratory fee , information brochure fee and any other amount 
collected from the students, by whatsoever name called , and accepted in whichever 
manner, that is made payable to a private school; 

(f) “management” means the managing committee or the governing body, by 
whatever name called , of the private school to which the affairs of such schools are 
entrusted and where such affairs are entrusted to any person , by whatever name or 
designation called ; 

(g) “National Authority ” means the National Authority for the Regulation of 
Fee in Private Schools constituted under section 4 ; 

(h ) “ parent” means biological or adoptive mother or father of a child ; 

(i) “ pre -primary school” means a nursery, junior kindergarten , senior kindergarten 
level or any school imparting education for children between the age of three to six 
years, by whatever name called and of any medium attached in the prescribed manner 
to the school, but does not include a creche ; 

(j) “ prescribed ” means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 


(k ) “ private school” means an unaided school, whether recognized or not, 
which is not run by the appropriate Government, or its local authority or any other 
authority designated or sponsored by appropriate Government and includes a pre 
primary , primary, middle , higher secondary and senior secondary school and also 
other institutions which impart education or training below the degree level but does 
not include an institute which imparts technical education ; 


(1) “ profiteering” means any amount accepted in cash or kind , directly or 
indirectly which is in excess of the fee approved as per the provisions of this Act; 

(m ) “ regulations” means the regulations framed by the Authority; 

(n ) “ school” means a pre -primary school, primary school, school imparting 
elementary education , secondary school, higher secondary school or junior college 
recognized by the Government and managed by any management and affiliated to 
any Indian or foreign board , whether aided , partially aided or un -aided ; 


(0 ) “ stake - holders ” means the management, the students studying in the 
respective institution and their parents; and 


(p ) “ State Authority ” means the State Authority for Regulation of Fee in Private 
Schools constituted under section 6 . 


3 . Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in , no 
private school shall charge any additional fee in any form for admission in such school. 


Prohibition 
on charging 
additional 
fee . 


678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


Constitution 
of the 
National 
Aut 

or 
Regulation of 
Fee in Private 
Schools. 


4 . (1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the OfficialGazette, constitute 
a National Authority to be known as the National Authority for Regulation of Fee in Private 
Schools for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) The National Authority shall consist of , 


( a ) a Chairperson and six other members having atleast twenty -five years of 
experience in the field of school education , public affairs or administration ofeducational 
matters ; 


(b ) following ex -officio Members — 


(i) the Chairperson , Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE ); 
(ii) the Commissioner, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) ; 

(iii) the Director , National Council of Educational Research & Training 
(NCERT ); 

( iv ) the Chairperson ,National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE ); 
(v) the Chairperson ,National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS); 
(vi) the Commissioner,Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS ); 
( vii ) the Chairperson , National Bal Bhavan ; and 


( c ) an eminent economist and a statistician . 


to be appointed by the Central Government in such manner as may be prescribed . 


( 3) The term of office of the members of the National Authority shall be five years and 
they shall not be eligible for re -appointment. 


(4 ) The salary and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of 
Chairperson , other members , eminent economist and statistician shall be such as may be 
prescribed . 

5 . The National authority shall, — 


Functions of 
the National 
Authority . 


Constitution 
of the State 
Authority for 

on of 
Fee in Private 
Schools . 


( a ) prescribe the fee to be charged by a private school; 

(b ) define the principle of reasonable surplus and ‘non -profiteering on the 
basis of cost-fee analysis by private schools ; and 

(c) undertake such other function as may be assigned to it by the Central 
Government, from time to time. 

6 . ( 1) Every State Government shall, within three months from the date of coming into 
force of this Act and in consultation with the respective State School Education Boards, by 
notification in the Official Gazette , constitute a State Authority to be known as the State 
Authority for Regulation of Fee in Private Schools. 

(2 ) The State Authority shall consist of such number of members representing the 
State School Education Boards , teachers, parents and students to be appointed by the 
State Government concerned in such manner as may be prescribed . 

7 . The State Authority shall, — 


Functions of 
the State 
Authority . 


(a ) ensure that the fee structure submitted by the private schools within the 
State conforms to the principles of ‘reasonable suplus ’ and ‘non -profiteering defined 
by the National Authority under section 5 ; and 


(b ) undertake such other function as may be assigned to it by the State 
Government, from time to time. 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


679 


8. The Central Governemnt shall, on the recommendations of the National Authority , Central 
determine the maximum amount of fee that can be charged by a private school. 

Government 
to prescribe 
the maximum 
amount of 
fee . 


9. Every private school shall , subject to the maximum amountof fee determined by the Private 
NationalAuthority under section , formulate its fee structure in consonance with the principles School to 

formulate the 
of “reasonable surplus and non - profiteering as defined by the National Authority under 

fee structure . 
section 5 . 

10 . Any private school,which demands or accepts any fee or donation , in any manner Penalty. 
whatsoever, in violation of the provisions of section 9 shall, without prejudice to proceedings 
for prosecution under the provisions of this Act or any other law for the time being in force , 
be subject to following penalties : 

(i) the recognition of such private school shall be withdrawn; and 

(ii ) such private school shall be liable to a penalty which may extend upon 
twenty lakh rupees : 

Provided that a school shall be given reasonable opportunity of being heard before 
any decision on its derecognition is taken . 

11 . The CentralGovernment shall, after due appropriation made by Parliament by law Central 
in this behalf , provide requisite funds to the State Governments for carrying out the purposes Government 

to provide 
of this Act. 

funds. 


12 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the provisions of this Act, shall Application 
apply to minority institutions only if the management of such institutions convey to the 

minority 
appropriate Government their willingness for regulation of fee in such institutions. 

educational 
institutions in 
certain 

situation . 
13. The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent Overriding 
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force . 

effect of the 


Act. 


14 . The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any Act to 
other law for the time being in force . 

supplement 

other laws. 
15 . ( 1) The CentralGovernmentmay, by notification in the OfficialGazette , make rules Power to 
for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

make rules. 
(2 ) Every rule made under this Act shall be laid , as soon as may be after it is made, 
before each House of Parliament while it is in session , for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the 
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid , 
both the Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the Houses agree that 
the rule should not be made , the rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form 
orbe of no effect, as the case may be ; so , however , that any such modification or annulment 
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule . 


680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[PART II — 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Education is listed as a subject in the Concurrent List of the Constitution of India , 
meaning that schools, including private schools , are governed by both Central and State 
laws. The last decade has witnessed growth in both the number of private schools in India 
and the proportion of children enrolled in them . The proportion of private schools rose from 
19 .49 per cent in 2007 -08 to 22 .74 per cent in 2014 - 15 . Around the same period , the share of 
enrolment of children between the ages of six to fourteen years in private schools rose from 
19.3 per cent to 30 .8 per cent. 

Parents spend a significantportion of their income to educate their children , a burden 
that is often greatest for the poorest families . There is ample evidence that these costs are 
a barrier that prevents some parents from enrolling or keeping their children in school. For 
some families, the desire to send their children to school results in parents making sacrifices 
in other areas of their lives . 

The SupremeCourt aswell as the High Courts of various Indian States have censured 
‘ commercialisation of education and banned the charging of capitation fee . In TMA Pai 
Foundation vs State of Karnataka ( 2002), the Supreme Court ruled that the fee chared by 
private unaided institutions can be limited by the State to prevent profiteering , while allowing 
for ‘ reasonable surplus . In 2003 in Islamic Academy of Education vs State of Karnataka 
(2003), the SupremeCourt observed that the Educational Institutions can form their own fee 
structures, and the funds must be used to provide facilities to students and to further the 
growth of the educational institutions. In line with the Supreme Court s judgement, some 
States did set up Committees to monitor the fee structure of Educational Institutions. But, 
there is no framework at the national level prescribing the criteria for limits on fee and the 
definition of terms ‘ reasonable surplus and profiteering . 

In the words of Babasaheb Ambedkar, education authorities cannot be treated on the 
basis of quid pro quo ; rather it is something “ ought to be cheapened in all possible ways to 
the greatest possible extent” . Therefore , Government should stop the commercialisation of 
education and regulate with a uniform fee structure across private schools in India . Such a 
regulatory mechanism will reduce rampant exploitation of the public and help improve 
educational quality . 

Hence this Bill. 


BOORANARSAIAH GOUD 


NEW DELHI; 
February 9 , 2018 . 


SEC . 2 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


681 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 
Clause 4 of the Bill provides for constitution of National Authority for Regulation of 
Fee in Private Schools . Italso provides for appointment of a Chairperson , an economist and 
statistician to the National Authority . Clause 6 provides for constitution of State Authority 
by the State Government concerned . Clause 11 provides that the Central Government shall 
provide adequate funds to the State Governments for carrying out the purposes of the Act. 
The Bill, therefore , if enacted, would involve expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of 
India . It is estimated that a sum of rupees twenty -five crore would be involved as recurring 
expenditure per annum from the Consolidated Fund of India . 
A non -recurring expenditure of about rupees ten crore is also likely to be involved . 

MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 
Clause 15 of the Bill empowers the CentralGovernment to make rules for carrying out 
the purposes of the Bill . As the rules will relate to matters of detail only , the delegation of 
legislative power is of a normal character. 


SNEHLATA SHRIVASTAVA 

Secretary -General 


UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD , NEW DELHI- 110 002 

AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI- 110 054. 


MGIPMRND — 1397GI( S3) — 04 - 09 -2018 . 


MANOJ 
KUMAR 


Digitally signed by 
MANOJKUMAR 
Date : 2018 .09.04 
18 : 12:59 + 05 30 


