#0 $ .222 


MilSTf MO M« MU 


wrct S *i5nur 

£ke (Bazette of 3ndia 

vrftnrm it 

PUBLISHED 8 V AUTHORITY 

d« 43] a# ft??fV, YnrfsrarTT, smar 24, 1970 («prfcw 2 , 1892) 

No. 43] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


am d fa?* «r*s wm 4V sn# | ftrro fa ug smu u>.to % sq d xwn stt 0% 

(Separate paging la it Iren to ddi Par! In order that It may be filed aa a separate compilation) 


wt*t 4 

(PART m— SECTION 4) 

fafa* fiwuff |TTT orTft vr uf fafaw ufageRiq ffem arta^mui, srri^r, fauwr srk uffetfau f 

(Miscellaneous Notifications including Notifications, Orders, Advertisements and Notices 

issued by Statutory Bodies) 


fir arm; ?fferr 

a«rf, 30 firam 1970 

4'sp 3 ttb sfaqr, mrm Pmmr 1955 % 
Pm 76( 1 ) % srifrn; %*3to att «fV qrpfard ^rfirfcr 
% ^rf fosjft fawr sram m Pwr % Pr&fV ^snr f^mr 
% g’T-anftsre? ^r% appPr Prffe qrr mPr ^rr?n: 
qr*?r # vif«wr4f % st^Pt st sifen: fw| 1 

srVt «fV qrm?rft ttPtPt % sntvr *r, 

Pmfa 7 smfrs 1970 
$w> 3TTO fferr, mm PmrmrV 1955 % 

Pm 76( 1 ) % apjarrr wti ^V wirt stPtPt 

M299GI/70 ( 


^ qrmr, fiwrm cmr srr^faw wifotfr % 

am few 3rfswnfPrf su% 3pm Prfro: # 
*rf fRYTSW: Wt srfmfT % OTK arfsRTR: 

Pmr | 1 

%v 4 Pr wti ^V mfoiff uftPr % sn^r d, 

€t° STITo *TOMld 
mU-Pl^TTr 

srmfaw swrfm : 3Ymm ft^m 
unfairt vm afar Pm 

*f\fWV-3, Pmfa 5 TO 1970 

fasrffe 

do f- 17 / 10 — i^mgrcr 3rfsr^fecT Pm mr | 
fa TP37T sfPTT (fTO) fwfew 1950 % 

) 




1 692 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1 970 (KARTIKA 2, 1 892) 

fafrE w lo-tr % 3?^ sOTnrfr^r r ^arft % faq fafaqrr i o-tt (f)%3Rpfa i. 

sFurfatr % fcsrfts ?fo H- 1 7/ i 0, forfa 14-11-69 
% nfer ?«TFf^T Pfafa *PT f^T JRTp; % 'UFfcR fw 
*PTT | : — 

aresrear : 


[Part III— Sec. 4 
sft arfcrfo ^sr^f 

tTo qRo ^0 

stftPF sfa afft arsw 
trcst w&fi 

'O * «N 

irf^tpr, ara^t 1 

C\ -C * 


fafa*FT 1 O-rr(rj) % TO — f#PI 3RT, faSTT aft^T- 

TTST, mft I 


: 


ftrfwr 1 o-q («ft) % ®ra % — spt srfwrft, fsr?t 1 

„ (*ft) „ srcrrcrfa^ arfspFret, 

wsnrcl xm sffar afpsnrr, 
^ranfV , q^Rt-8 1 
„ (fr) „ 1 . sff sfto qqo 

S&m, 3TPTPT #3T =F O 
a=r?t 1 

2. sft SRSTffi 

ipW 5PET iXXpX, 
a=Rt 1 

>9 * 


2 . sfr scf^TW ftRT fiTRT 
WRIC BTiTT W, 
TmTTT I f?%3F3: 

arnr^r q^ uw 

JifRR, sr^V 1 

C\ ' o 

(qq>) „ srspf, i«rtqta wwrr, 

®phnfr ter 5ft*rr 
Pept, 1 

3TT5TT *T 

fork f mq sftcrt 
STT^PF f«*ns 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 
Central Office 

Bombay, the 30 th September 1970 
NOTICES 

In pursuance of Regulation 76(1) of the State 
Bank of India General Regulations, 1955, the Executive 
Committee of the Central Board has empowered the Dy. 
Superintendent, Foreign Exchange Department, New 
Delhi Local Head Office, to exercise the signing powers 
spcified therein. 

By order of the Executive Committee of the 
Central Board, 

The 1th October 1970 

In pursuance of Regulation 76(1) of the State 
Bank of India General Regulations. 1955, the Executive 
Committee of the Central Board has empowered the 
Additional Chief Development Officers at the Regional 
Offices at Patna, Shillong and Bhubaneswar to exetcise 
the signing powers specified therein. 

By order of the Executive Committee of the 
Central Board. 

T. R. VARADACHARY 
Managing Director 

■■ ■ miw»5 B »M r OTu a» a »ig MTw— w CTMMMapg— c— n— — a w ao— — sm emm cr— ■ — — r 

THE BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 26th September 1970 

At the meeting of the Council dated 29th and 30th 
August, 1970 the rules of the Council in part III-A were 
amended as set out in Ihe following resolution : — 

RESOLUTION NO. 1 ? 6/7/ 1 970 

RESOLVED that the recommendation of the Legal 
Education Committee under its Resolution No. 
12/1970(LE) be accepted and the following amend- 
ments in the Rules of the Council be and are hereby 
made. 


Add the following explanation at the end of Rule 2 irt 
Part III-A : — 

“The Course of instruction shall be by 7 regular 
attendance in institutions recognised by the Univer- 
sity.” 

A. N. VEERARAGHAVAN 
Secretary 
Bar Council of India 


THE INSTITUTE OF COST & WORKS ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA 

Calcutta-\6, the 29 th September 1970 
(Cost Accountants) 

No. 16-CB / i?(36)/70. — In pursuance of Regulation 16 
of the Cost and Works Accountants Regulations, 1959, 
it is hereby notified that in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 20 of 
the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959, the Council 
of the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India 
has removed from the Register of Members, at own re- 
quest, the name of Shri S. V. Kailasapathy, No. 4/F, 
Tower Block, Nandanam, Madras-35, (Membership No. 
45), with effect from 1st April 1970. 

The 1st October 1970 

No. 39-CWA (34)/ 70. — In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (1) of Section 39 of the Cost arid 
Works Accountants Act 1959, (Act No. 23 of 1959), 
the Council of the Institute of Cost and Works Ac- 
countants of India has made the following amendments 
in the Cost and Works Accountants Regulations, 1959. 
the same having been previously published and approved 
by the Central Government as required by sub-section 
(3) of the. said Section. 



Part III — Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KAR1IKA 2, 1892) 


1693 


In the existing Regulation for the existing Chapter VII 
consisting of Regulations 52 to 70, the following new 
Chapter VII and Regulations 52 to 70,4 shall be substi- 
tuted , namely : 


Chapter VII 
ELECTIONS 

52. Dates of Election. — The following dates relating to 
the election of members to the Council, namely, the last 
date for the receipt of nominations, the last date forthe 
withdrawal of nominations, the date or dates of polling, 
the last date; for receipt of voting papers fay post, the 
date or dates of counting of votes, and the date of dec- 
laration of results, shall be fixed by the Council and 
notified by it in the Journal of the Institute at least three 
months before the date on which the counting of votes 
commences. 

53. Members eligible to vote. — (1) Every members of 
the Institute shall be entitled to vote in any election to 
the Council by the constituency to which according to his 
professional address he belonged on a date immediately 
six months prior to the date on which the list of members eli- 
gible to vote in any election is published, provided that his 
name has been borne on the Register of Members continu- 
ously for a period of not less than six months immediate- 
ly prior to the date of publication of the list of members 
eligible to vote in that election and provided further that 
on 1st April of the year in which the election is held, his 
entrance fee, annual membership fee and other dues for 
and in respect of the previous year are not in arrears. 

(2) A member whose name stands removed from the 
Register of Members on the date on which he has to 
cast his vote shall not be entitled to vote, at the election 
notwithstanding that his name has been published in the 
list of voters. 

54. Qualifications of members to stand for election . — 
Only Fellows whose, names ar e contained in the list of 
voters published under Regulation 56 and who are eligible 
to vote at the election, shall be eligible to stand for elec- 
tion to the Council from the Regions in which their names 
are included. 

55. Number of persons to be elected. — The number 
of persons to be elected from a constituency shall bear 
the same proportion to the number of persons to be elect- 
ed from all constituencies as the number of members of 
the Institute in that constituency bears to the number of 
members of the Institute in all constituencies, the re- 
sultant fraction exceeding half being counted as one and 
the resultant fraction equivalent to or less than half 
being omitted : 

Provided that each constituency shall have at least one 
person elected therefrom to the Council. 

56. List of voters. — (1) At least three months before 
the date fixed for commencement of counting of votes 
m an election, the Council shall publish — 

(a) a list of members of the Institute in each consti- 
tuency eligible to vote showing inter alia dis- 
tinctly and separately — 

(i) whether any particular member is an Asso- 
ciate or a Fellow; 

(ii) the polling area or polling booth to which 
the voter is attached and in which he 
should exercise his franchise if the Secre- 
tary decides that his voting shall be in a 
polling booth, and not by post, under the 
powers vested in him under Regulation 


(iii) the location of the polling booth and pol- 
ling area for which each such booth has 
been selected; and 

(iv) whether any particular member is entitled 
to vote by post under Regulation 63N; 

and shall send a copy thereof to each member of the 
Institute irrespective of whether he is a voter or not; and 

(b) a notice in the Journal of the Institute men- 
tioning the number of members to be elected 
and calling for nominations of candidates for 
election before a specified date which shall not 
be, less, than fourteen days from the date of 
publication of the notice. 

(2) The address published in the list of members 
eligible to vote will be final for determining the manner 
in which a member will be entitled to cast his vote or 
the constituency or the polling booth to which he will 
belong for purposes of casting his vote; 

Provided that if a member attached to a particular 
pollings booth in a city where more than one polling 
booth have to be set up, finds that it would be difficult 
for him to vote at the polling booth to which he is 
attached, he may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be 
permitted to vote at another polling booth in the same 
city. Applications in this behalf stating the reasons for 
the request must reach th e Secretary at leas 45 days 
before the date of polling. 

57. Nomination of candidates. — (1) Every nomination 
of a candidate shall be in Form ‘K.’ duly signed by the 
candidate and by the proposer and seconder, both of 
whom shall b e persons entitled to vote in the election 
and shall be, forwarded by registered post to, the Secretary 
by name so as to reach him on or before the specified 
date. 

(2) Every candidate for election shall pay a fee of 
Rs. 200 which shall not be refundable in any circum- 
stances except as hereinafter provided : 

Provided that not more than one such payment need 
be made by any one candidate in respect of his candi- 
dature for any one election : 

Provided further that iu the event of his nomination 
not being accepted as valid as hereinafter provided, the 
fee of Rs, 200 paid by him shall be refunded to him 
in full. 

58. Withdrawal of candidature. — Any candidate may 
withdraw his candidature by notice in writing addressed 
to the Secretary by name and by registered post so as 
to reach him before 3 O’clock on the seventh day suc- 
ceeding the date fixed for the receipt of nomination 
papers. No person who has thus withdrawn his candi- 
date shall be allowed to cancel his withdrawal., The 
withdrawal of candidature shall be intimated by the 
Secretary to the other candidates' standing for election in 
the constituency. Any candidate who withdraws his 
candidature; in accordance with this Regulation will be 
entitled, on an application made by him in this behalf, 
to the refund of half the, amount of fee deposited by 
him under Regulation 57. 

59. Scrutiny of nominations.— (I) The Secretary shall 
scrutinise the nomination papers of all candidates other 
than those whose candidature has been withdrawn under 
Regulation 58 and shall endorse on each nomination 
paper his decision accepting or rejecting it and if he 
rejects it, he shall record in writing a brief statement of 
his reasons for so rejecting it and shall communicate the 
same, by registered post to the candidate concerned. 

(2) The Secretary may refuse or reject any nomina- 
tion if he is satisfied : 

(a) that the candidate was ineligible to stand for 
election; 


1694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


(b) that the proposer or seconder was not qualified 
to subscribe, to the nomination of the candidate 
in Form ‘K’; 

(c) that there has been a failure to comply with any 
of the provisions of Regulation 57; 

(d) that the signature of any candidate or of the 
proposer or seconder is not genuine or has been 
obtained by force or fraud; 

(e) that the candidate or the proposer or seconder 
has not paid any of the fees due and payable 
to the Council for and in respect of the year 
preceding the year in which the election is held; 
or 

(f) that on the date of scrutiny of the nomination 
the name of the candidate or the proposer or 
seconder stands removed from the Register of 
Members; 

Provided that nothing contained in clause (b), (c), 
(d), (e) or (f) shall be deemed to authorise the refusal 
or rejection of the nomination of any candidate on the 
ground of any irregularity in respect of a nomination of 
the candidate if he, has been duly and validly nominated 
by means of another nomination in respect of which no 
irregularity has been committed. 

60. Appeals.— A candidate whose nomination has been 
refused or rejected by the .Secretary may within 10 days 
of tne date on which such rejection or refusal is com- 
municated to him, prefer an appeal to the. Council., The 
appeal shall be heard by a Committee, appointed by the 
Council for this purpose consisting of three persons who 
need not necessarily be. members of the Institute. Mem- 
bers of the Institute appointed on the Committee shall 
not be chosen from the candidates standing for election. 
The Committee so appointed shall have powers to inspect 
any documents, examine any witnesses, record any evi- 
dence, receive affidavits, grant adjournments, and exercise 
such other powers as may be necessary for the efficient 
and faithful performance of the duties. The decision of 
the Committee shall be final. 

61. List of valid nominations. — (1) On completion of 
the scrutiny of nominations as provided under Regula- 
tion 59, the Secretary shall forthwith prepare a list of 
valid nominations for the constituency and cause such 
list to be sent by registered post to each candidate in 
that constituency whose nomination has been accepted as 
valid. The list shall contain the full names in alpha- 
betical order and the addresses of the valiuly nominated 
candidates in the constituency., 

(2) If a candidate dies or otherwise ceases to be a 
member before the date or dates of polling fixed for the 
election but after the date fixed for the withdrawal of 
candidature under Regulation 58 and his nomination is 
or has been accepted as valid, the election in his consti- 
tuency shall be conducted among the remaining candi- 
dates and no fresh proceedings with reference to the 
election of members in the constituency in which such 
member was a candidate shall be commenced. 

62. Candidates deemed to b c elected if their number 
is equal to or less than the number of persons to be 
elected. — If the number of candidates validly nominated 
in any constituency is equal, or becomes, by reason of 
the death or cessation of membership of one or more 
candidates before the counting of votes for the election, 
equal, to or less than the number of persons to be elected 
for such constituency, then such candidates shall be 
deemed to be elected and the Secretary shall declare all 
such candidates duly elected; a nd where the number of 
such candidates in that constituency is less than the 
number of persons to be elected for that constituency, 


the Secretary shall commence fresh proceedings for the 
election of the remaining number of members to be 
elected from that constituency. 

63. Admissible number of votes to each voter.- — Each 
voter shall have one vote only. A voter in giving his 
vote — 

(a) must place on his ballot paper the figure 1 in 
the square opposite the name of the candidate 
for whom he votes, and 

(b) may, in addition, place on his ballot paper the 
figure 2 or the, figures 2 and 3, or 2, 3 and 4 
and so on, in the squares opposite the names 
of other candidates in the order of his 
preference. 

63A. Mode of Elections. — Except as otherwise provid- 
ed, the elections shall be conducted by poll and every 
voter in any election, shall cast his vote personally in 
the booth provided for the purpose, unless a voter is 
allowed in respect of any election to cast his vote by 
post as hereinafter provided. 

63B. Polling Booths . — The Secretary shall set up such 
number of polling booths at such places as he deems 
necessary, provided that, within an area covered by a 
radius of eight kilometers from each booth, there are 
not less than fifteen members according to their profes- 
sional address as given in the list of members eligible to 
vote. 

63C. Polling officer. — The Secretary shall appoint a 
polling officer for each polling booth and may also ap- 
point such other persons as he may deem necessary to 
assist the polling officer. The polling officer shall, in 
addition to performing any other duties imposed upon 
him by these Regulations be in general charge of all 
arrangements at the polling booth and may issue orders 
as to the manner in which persons shall be admitted to 
the polling booth and generally for the preservation of 
peace and order at or in the vicinity of the polling booth., 

63 D. Secret Chamber and ballot paper. — (1) There 
shall be a secret chamber or chambers in each polling 
booth and such chamber shall be so arranged that where 
a voter records his votes on the ballot paper, no other 
persons can see how he has voted. 

(2) The ballot paper shall contain a list of candidates 
standing for election in a constituency and shall bear the 
seal of the Council. 

63E. Presence of candidates at polling booths. — Any 
candidate for election in a constituency shall be entitled 
to be present at the polling booths in that constituency 
and to appoint members of the Institute as his autho- 
rised representatives to be present on his behalf at the 
polling booths in that constituency : 

Provided that the candidate shall send to the Secretary 
by name so as to reach him at least thirty days before 
the date fixed for the poll at that constiuency an inti- 
mation by registered post of his intention to appoint 
such authorised representatives for the purpose, clearly 
indicating the full name, membership number and address 
of each of the authorised representatives and the number 
of the polling booth at which each of them will be 
present : 

Provided further that not more than one authorised 
representative shall be present at a time at each polling 
booth. 

63F. Voting to be in person and not by proxy . — 
Voting shall be by ballot and every person entitled to 
record his vote by ballot and wishing to record his vote, 
shall do so in person and not by proxy. 


Part III — Sec. 4] 


1695 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 


63G. Identification of voters. — (1) The polling officer 
may employ at the polling booth such persons as he 
thinks fit to assist him in identifying the voters or for 
any other purpose. 

(2) At any time before a ballot paper is delivered to 
a voter, the polling officer may of his own accord, if he 
has reason to doubt the identity of the voter or his right 
to vote at the polling booth, and shall if so required by 
a candidate or his authorised representative, put to the 
voter such questions as he may deem necessary with a 
view to establishing the identity of that voter. 

(3) Every voter shall be required to sign the marked 
copy of the list of members eligible to vote and his sig- 
nature shall be verified by the polling officer with the 
specimen signature of the voter provided by the Secretary. 

(4) If the polling officer is not satisfied as to the iden- 
tity of the person claiming to be a. voter, he may refuse 
to allow such person to vote in the election. 

63H. Record to be kept by polling officer.- — (1) The 
polling officer shall at the time of delivery of the ballot 
paper place against the name of the voter in the list of 
members eligible to vote a mark to denote that the voter 
has received a ballot paper. He shall also keep a record 
of the ballot papers supplied to the voters in such man- 
ner as the Secretary may direct. 

(2) In deciding the right of a person to obtain a 
ballot paper under this Regulation, the polling officer at 
any polling booth may interpret any entry in the list of 
members eligible to vote so as to overlook merely clerical 
or printing error, provided that he is satisfied that such 
person is identical with the voter to whom such entry 
relates. 

631. Manner of recording of votes after receipt of 
ballot paper . — On receiving the ballot paper the voter 
shall forthwith proceed into the secret chamber set apart 
for the purpose and shall record his votes on the ballot 
paper in the manner specified in Regulation 63, He shall 
thereafter fold the ballot paper, leave the secret chamber 
and insert the ballot paper in the ballot box provided 
for the purpose in presence of the polling officer. The 
ballot box should be so constructed that a ballot paper 
can be inserted thereinto during the poll but cannot be 
withdrawn therefrom without the box being unlocked or 
the seals being broken. 

63 J. Return of ballot paper by a voter. — (1) if a voter 
after obtaining a ballot paper for the purpose of record- 
ing his votes decides not to use the same, he shall return 
the ballot paper to the polling officer and the ballot 
paper so returned shall then, be marked as ‘cancelled — 
returned' and kept in a separate envelope set apart for 
the purpose and a record shall be kept by the polling 
officer of all such ballot papers. 

(2) If any ballot paper which has been issued to a 
voter for the purpose of recording his votes is found left 
by the voter at the secret chamber at the end of the day 
when the polling officer inspects the secret chamber, 
whether votes have been recorded in it or not, it shall 
be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of sub- 
regulation (1) as if it had been returned to the polling 
officer. 

63K. Hours of polling. — (1) Every polling booth shall 
be kept open on the day or days appointed fpr record- 
ing of votes from 8.30 hours to 18.30 hours. 

(2) If the polling at any polling booth cannot take 
place on the day or days appointed for recording of 
votes, or is interrupted or obstructed for any sufficient 
cause, or the ballot box used at a booth is tampered 
with or is accidentally or deliberately destroyed, lost or 
damaged, the polling officer or the Secretary, as the case 
may be, may adjourn the polling to a subsequent date, or 


the Secretary may declare the polling at the booth void 
and decide to have a fresh polling, respectively. 

(3) If a polling is adjourned or declared void under 
sub-regulation (2), the Secretary shall, as soon as may 
be possible, appoint the place where the polling shall 
be subsequently conducted and the time, date or dates, 
as the. case may be, for the said polling booth. Also 
he shall not proceed with counting of votes relating to 
the election in a constituency, until the polling at all the 
polling booths in that constituency has been completed. 

(4) The place, date or dates and the time of polling 
appointed under sub-regulation (3) shall be notified in- 
dividually to the candidates and to the voters concerned. 

(5) The polling officer shall close the polling both at 
the end of the day, or if the polling is for more than one 
day, at the end of each day, at the hour appointed 
under sub-regulation (1) and no voter shall be admitted 
thereto after that hour : 

Provided that all voters present within the polling 
booth before it is closed, shall be entitled to have their 
votes recorded : 

Provided further that where the number of voters 
within a radius of eight kilometers at any polling booth 
exceeds 300, the polling booth shall be kept open for 
two consecutive days during the same timings as men- 
tioned in sub-regulation (1). 

(6) The polling officer shall, as soon as practicable 
after the close of the poll or after its close on each day 
if the polling is for more than day, in the presence 
of any candidates or their authorised representatives who 
may be present, seal the ballot box with his own seal 
and the seals of such candidates or authorised represen- 
tatives as may desire to affix their seals thereon. He 
shall also make separate packets of : 

(i) the' unused ballot papers; 

(ii) the returned ballot papers; 

(iii) the marked copy of the list of members eligible 
to vote; and 

(iv) any other paper directed by the Secretary to be 
kept in a sealed cover; 

and seal each such packet with his own seal and the seals 
of such candidates or authorised representatives as may 
desire to affix their seals thereon. He shall arrange, for 
the safe custody of the ballot box and such packets. 

(7) Before commencement of polling on the second 
day, wherever the polling is to take place for more than 
one day, the polling officer shall, after the seals on the 
ballot box and packets referred to in sub-regulation (6) 
are examined by him and by the candidates or their 
authorised representatives who may be present, remove 
in their presence the seals on the ballot box and packets 
for use during the course of that day. 

(8) The ballot box and packets referred to in sub- 
regulation (6) shall be accompanied by an account of 
ballot papers showing the total number of ballot papers 
received, issued, unissued and returned, as also the num- 
ber of ballot papers which should be found in the ballot 
box. This account shall be forwarded to the Secretary 
by the polling officer, 

63L. Transport of ballot papers and their custody . — 
The Secretary and the polling officers shall make adequate 
arrangements for safe custody of the ballot papers and 
for safe transport to the headquarters of th.e Institute of 
all packets or boxes and other papers referred to in 
Regulation 63K. The Secretary shall also be responsible 
for their safe custody until the commencement of count- 
ing of votes. 



1696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIK.A 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Stc. 4 


63M. Voting by members employed on duty at polling 
booths.- —The polling officer, the persons appointed by 
the Secretary to assist the polling officer, or the autho- 
rised representatives referred to in Regulation 63E, who 
are voters for any constituency and who by reason of 
their being on duty at a polling booth, are unable to be 
present and to vote at the polling booth where they are 
entitled to vote, may send lo the Secretary by name 
so as to reach him at least thirty days before the date 
fixed for the poll at that constituency, an application for 
permission to vote at the polling booth where they will 
be on duty. If the Secretary is satin lied that the claim 
is just, he may. nolwithsianding anything contained in 
this Chapter, allow the application and permit the 
voter to vote ai the polling booth where he will be on 
duty to act as polling officer or to assist the polling officer 
or as authorised representative of a candidate : 

Provided that such permission shall not be granted to 
more than one authorised representative, of a candidate 
in respect of each polling booth, such authorised represen- 
tative being specifically nominated for the purpose by 
the candidate himself. 

63N. Eligibility to vole by post. — Every member whose 
name is included in the list of members eligible to vote 
published under the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of 
Regulation 56 and whose name is not attached to any 
polling booth and every member who is residing outside 
India, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this 
Chapter, be entitled lo vote by post : 

Provided that a member who is entitled to vote by 
poll may be allowed at the discretion of the Secretary 
to vote by post if, by reason of there being a permanent 
change in his address from the address published in the 
list of members eligible to vote to another village, town 
or city beyond a radius of eight kilometers, he is unable 
to exercise his vote by poll at the polling booth allotted 
to him. Application in this behalf, with proper verifica- 
tion of the contents of the application by the member 
concerned, should be sent to the Secretary by name so 
as to reach him at least 30 days before the date of poll- 
ing, Any misuse of this concession, or any misstate- 
ment or false verification in this behalf will render the 
member concerned liable for disciplinary action under 
Regulation 70 : 

Provided frurther that a member who is actually resid- 
ing beyond a radius of eight kilometers from the polling 
booth allotted to him on the, basis of his professional 
address may at the discretion of the Secretary also be 
given the concession provided in the foregoing proviso 
on the same terms and conditions. 

64. Eligibility to vote by poll by a voter entitled to 
vote by post. — A voter entitled to vote by post under 
Regulation 63N may however be allowed by the Secre- 
tary to vote by poll at any particular polling both to be 
specified by him within his regional constituency, pro- 
vided he makes an application to that effect in writing 
duly addressed and forwarded to the Secretary by name 
by registered post so as to reach him at least 45 days 
before the date of polling. 

65. Ballot papers to be sent by post. — At least 21 days 
before the date for starting of counting of votes, the 
Secretary shall send by registered post to the address of 
every voter entitled to vote by post under Regulation 
63N, the ballot paper together with a letter explaining 
the manner in which it shall be filled up, and specifying 
the date and hour by which it must reach the Secretary. 

65A. Ballot papers to be returned after recording votes 
thereon. — Every voter on receiving his ballot paper sent 
under Regulation 65 shall, if he desires to vole at the 
election, record his votes thereon in the manner specified 
in Regulation 63 and then send it to the Secretary by 
name and by registered post so as to reach him before 


3.00 p.m. on the date fixed in this behalf. A voting 
paper not addressed lo the Secretary by name and not 
delivered by registered post shall be disregarded. 

65B. Issue of undelivered and fresh ballot papers . — 
When a ballot paper and other connected papers sent by 
post under Regulation 65 are lost or damaged in transit 
or for any reason returned undelivered, the Secretary 
army reissue them by registered post or deliver them or 
cause them to be delivered to the voter on this applying 
for the same, if the Secretary is satisfied with the reasons 
for such loss, damage or return of the ballot paper and 
other connected papers. 

65C. Grounds for declaring ballot papers invalid. — A 
ballot paper shall be invalid if — 

(a) a voter signs his name or writes any word or 
figure or makes any mar k on it by which the 
ballot paper becomes recognisable, or by which 
the voter can be identified; or 

(b) it does not bear the seal of the Council; or 

(c) the figure 1 is not marked in the square opposite 
the name of any of the candidates; or 

(d) the figure 1 is set opposite the name of more 
than one candidate; or 

(e) the figure 1 and some other figure arc set 
opposite the, name of the same candidate; or 

(f) it is unmarked or void for uncertainty. 

66. Definitions. — In this Chapter, unless there is any- 
thing repugnant in the subject or context — 

(a) ‘continuing candidate’ means any candidate, not 
elected and not excluded from the poll at any 
given time; 

(b) ‘first preference’ means the figure 1, "second 
preference" means the figure 2. and ‘third pre- 
ference' means the figure 3, set opposite the 
name of any candidate, and so on; 

(c) ‘unexhausted paper' means a ballot paper on 
which a further preterence is recorded for a 
continuing candidate; 

(d) ‘exhausted paper’ means a ballot paper on which 
no further preference is recorded for a continu- 
ing candidate, provided that a ballot paper shall 
also be deemed to be exhausted in any case in 
which — 

(i) the names of two or more candidates, whe- 
ther continuing or not, are marked with 
the same figure and are next in order of 
preference; or 

(ii) the name of the candidate next in order of 
preference, whether continuing or not, is 
marked by a figure not following conse- 
cutively after some other figures on the 
ballot paper or by two or more figures; 

(e) ‘original vote’ in regard to any candidate means 
a vote derived from a ballot paper on which 
a first preference is recorded for such candidate; 

(f) ‘transferred vote,’ in regard to any candi- 
date means a vote, the value or part of the 
value of which is credited to sq£h candidate 
and which is derived from a ballot paper on 
which a second or subsequent preference is 
recorded for such candidate; 

(g) ‘surplus’ means the number by which the value 
of the votes of any candidate, original or trans- 
ferred, exceeds the quota. 

66A. Appointment of time for counting of votes . — 
The Secretary shall appoint the time for counting of 



■Fart III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1697 


votes on each date at the headquarters of the Institute 
and shall give notice of such time in writing to all candi- 
dates. 

67. Counting of votes. — (1) On the date and at the 
time and place appointed under Regulation 66A, the 
Secretary shall for purposes of counting of votes in res- 
pect of a constituency — 

(a) open the covers containing the postal ballot 
papers received by him under Regulation 65A, 
and shall take out the ballot papers from each 
such cover, record the number thereof in a 
statement and make a separate packet of such 
ballot papers; 

(b) allow the candidates or their authorised re- 
presentatives present at the counting an oppor- 
tunity to inspect the ballot boxes and packets 
received from the polling officers and their seals 
for satisfying themselves that they are in order; 
and 

(c) proceed as follows : 

If he is satisfied that the ballot boxes and packets 
which have been received are in order, he shall take up 
the counting of the ballot papers contained in the ballot 
boxes. If he finds that any of the ballot boxes has been 
tampered with, he shall not count the ballot papers con- 
tained in such box for purposes of election. He shall, 
however, keep a record of such ballot papers for purposes 
of election petitions, if any. 

He shall open the ballot boxes found to be in order, 
take out the ballot papers therefrom, count them and 
keep a record of their number in a statement. To these 
he shall add the postal ballot papers. . He shall then 
examine the ballot papers and reject those which are in- 
valid. He shall thereafter divide the valid ballot papers 
into parcels according to the first preferences recorded 
for each candidate and count the number of papers in 
each parcel., 

(2) In carrying out the Regulations hereinafter con- 
tained, the Secretary shall — 

(a) disregard all fractions, and 

(b) ignore all preferences recorded for candidates 
already elected or excluded from the poll, 

(3) For the purpose of facilitating the processes pres- 
cribed by the Regulations hereinafter contained, each 
valid paper shall be deemed to be of the value of one 
hundred. 

(4) The Secretary shall add together the values of 
the papers in all the parcels and divide the total by a 
number exceeding by one the number of vacancies to be 
filled and the result increased by one shall be the num- 
ber sufficient to secure the return of a candidate (here- 
inafter called the quota). 

(5) If at any time a number of candidates equal to the 
number of persons to be elected has obtained the quota, 
such candidates shall be declared elected, and no further 
steps shall be taken. 

(6) Any candidate, the value of whose parcel, on the 
first preference being counted, is equal to or greater than 
the quota, shall be declared elected. If the value of the 
papers in any such parcel — 

(a) is equal to the quota the papers shall be set 
aside as finally dealt with; 

(b) is greater than the quota the surplus shall be 
transferred to the continuing candidates indi- 
cated on the voting papers as next in the order 
of the voters’ preference in the manner pres- 
cribed in the following sub-regulations. 

(7) If and whenever as the result of any operation 
prescribed by these Regulations a candidate has a surplus 
that surplus shall be transferred in accordance with the 
provisions of this sub-regulation. 


(a) If more than one candidate has a surplus, the 
largest surplus shall be dealt with first and the 
others in order of magnitude : Provided that 
every surplus arising on the first counting of 
votes shall b e dealt with before those - arising 
on the second counting and so on. 

(b) Where two or more surpluses are equal, the 
Secretary shall decide, as hereinafter provided, 
which shall first be dealt with. 

(c) If the surplus of any candidate to be transferred 
arises from original votes only, the Secretary 
shall examine all the papers in the parcel be- 
longing to the candidate whose surplus is to 
be, transferred, and divide the unexhausted 
papers into sub-parcels according to the next 
preferences recorded thereon. He shall also 
make a separate sub-parcel of the exhausted 
papers. He shall then ascertain the value of 
the papers in each sub-parcel and of aU the 
unexhausted papers. If the value of the un- 
exhausted papers— 

(i) is equal to or less than the surplus, he 
shall transfer all the unexhausted papers at 
the value at which they were received by 
the candidate whose surplus is being trans- 
ferred. 

(ii) is greater than the surplus, he shall trans- 
fer the sub-parcel of unexhausted papers, 
and the value at which each paper shall 
be transferred shall be ascertained by 
dividing the surplus by the total number 
of unexhausted papers. 

(d) If the surplus of any candidate to be trans- 
ferred arises from transferred as well as original 
votes, the Secretary shall re-examine all the 
papers in the sub-parcel last transferred to the 
candidate, and divide the unexhausted papers 
into sub-parcels according to the next prefer- 
ences recorded thereon. He shall thereupon 
deal with the sub-parcels in the same manner as 
is provided in the case of the sub-parcels re- 
ferred to in clause (c). 

(e) The papers transferred to each candidate shall 
be added in the form of a sub-parcel to the 
papers already belonging to such candidate. 

(f) All papers in the parcel or sub-parcel of an 
elected candidate not transferred under this sub- 
regulation shall be set aside as finally dealt with. 

(8) If after all surpluses have been transferred, as 
hereinbefore provided, less than the number of candidates 
required has been elected, the Secretary shall exclude 
from the poll the candidate lowest on the poll and shall 
proceed as follows : 

(a) He shall distribute the unexhausted papers of 
the excluded candidate among the continuing 
candidates according to the next preferences 
record thereon. Any exhausted papers shall be 
set aside as finally dealt with. 

(b) The papers containing original votes of an ex- 
cluded candidate shall first be transferred, the 
transfer value of each paper being one hundred. 

(c) The papers containing tranferred votes of an 
excluded candidate shall then b e transferred in 
the order of the transfers in which and at the 
value of which he obtained them. 

(d) Each of such transfers shall be deemed to be 
a separate transfer. 

(e) The process prescribed by this sub-regulation 
shall be repeated on the successive exclusions 
one, after another of the candidates lowest on 
the poll until the last vacancy is filled either 
by the election of a candidate with the quota 
or as hereinafter provided. 

(9) If as the result of a transfer under these Regula- 
tions the value of the votes obtained by a candidate is 



1698 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


THE G AZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


equal to or greater than the quota, the transfer then pro- 
ceeding shall be completed, but no further papers shall 
be transferred to him. 

(10) If after the completion of any transfer under 
these Regulations the value of votes of any candidate 
shall be equal 10 or greater than the quota, he shall be 
declared elected. If the value of the votes of any such 
candidate — 

(a) shall be equal to the quota, the whole of the 
papers on which such votes are recorded shall 
be set aside as finally dealt with; 

(b) shall be greater than the quota, his surplus 
shall thereupon be distributed in the manner 

herein before provided, before the exclusion of 
any other candidate. 

(11) When the number of continuing candidates is 
reduced to the number of vacancies remaining unfilled; 
the continuing candidates shall be declared elected. When 
only one vacancy remains unfilled and — 

(a) if the value of the votes of some one continu- 
ing candidate exceeds the total value of all the 
votes of the other continuing candidates, to- 
gether with any surplus not transferred that 
candidate shall be declared elected; 

(b) if there are only two continuing candidates, and 
those two candidates have each the same value 
of votes and no surplus remains capable of 
transfer, one candidate shall be declared ex- 
cluded under the next succeeding sub-regulation 
and the other declared elected. 

(12) If, when there is more than one surplus to dis- 
tribute, two or more surpluses are equal, or if at any time 
it becomes necessary to exclude a candidate and two or 
more candidates have the same values of votes and are 
lowest on the poll, regard shall be had to the original 
votes of each candidate and the candidate for whom 
fewest original votes are recorded shall have his surplus 
first distributed, or shall be first excluded, as the case 
may be. If the values of their original votes are equal 
the Secretary shall decide by lot which candidate shall 
have his surplus distributed or be excluded. 

68. Appointment of Scrutinisers . — The Secretary shall 
appoint not more than four persons who are neither 
members of the Council nor candidates for election to 
act as scrutinisers of the voting papers and to assist the 
Secretary generally in counting the votes. 

68A. Presence of candidates at the time of counting 
of votes . — Any candidate for election shall be entitled 
to be present in person or to appoint a member of the 
Institute as a representative to be present on his behalf 
at the time of counting of votes. 

69. Notification of the declaration of results . — The 
names of ail candidates declared elected shall be notified 
by the Council in the Journal of the Institute. 

69A. Savings. — (1) The decision of the Secretary 
shall be final in all matters not only in regard to the 
application of any of the provisions of the Regulations 
contained in this Chapter but also in respect of all other 
matters not specifically coveted by these provisions : 

Provided that an appeal against the Secretary’s decision 
may be made to the Council by a candidate within te 
days from the date of communication of the decision 
to him, and the appeal shall be dealt with by the same 
Committee and in the manner as specified in Regulation 
60. 

(2) No election shall be deemed to be invalid merely 
because of the accidental omission to send, or delay in 
sending, a ballot paper to a voter, or the accidental non- 
receipt of, or delay in receiving, a ballot paper by a voter, 
or any other accidental irregularity or informality in the 
conduct of the election. 


70. Disciplinary action against member in connection 
with conduct of elections. — A member of the Institute 
shall be liable for disciplinary action by the Council if 
he adopts one or more of the following practices with 
regard to the election to the Council, namely : 

(1) Bribery, that is to say, any gift, offer or promise 
by a candidate or by any other peirson with the conni- 
vance of a candidate, of any gratification to a person 
whomsoever, with the object, directly or indirectly, of 
inducing — 

(a) a member to stand or not to stand as, or to 
withdraw from being, a candidate at an election; 
or 

(b) St voter to vote ck refrain from voting at an 
election, or as a reward to — 

(i) a member for having so stood or not stood, 
or for having withdrawn his candidature; 
or 

(ii) a voter for having voted or refrained from 
voting. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of this clause the term 
“gratification” is not restricted to pecuniary gratifications 
or gratifications estimable in money, but includes all 
forms of entertainment and all forms of employment for 
reward; but it does not include the payment of any ex- 
penses bona fide incurred at, or for the purpose of, any 
election. 

(2) Undue influence, that is to say, any direct or in- 
direct interference or attempt to interfere on the part of 
a candidate of of any other person with the connivance 
of the candidate with free exercise of any electoral right ; 

Provided that a declaration of policy or a promise of 
a particular action or the mere exercise of a legal right 
without intent to interfere with an electofal right shall 
not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of 
this clause. 

(3) The publication by a candidate or by any other 
person with the connivance of the candidate of any state- 
ment of fact which is false, and which he either believes 
to be false or does not believe to be true, in relation to 
the personal character or conduct of any candidate, or in 
felation to the candidature or withdrawal of any candi- 
date, being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice 
the prospects of that candidate’s election. 

(4) The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attemp- 
ting to obtain or procure by a candidate or by any other 
person with the connivance of a candidate, any assistance 
for the furtherance of the prospects of the candidate’s 
election from any person serving under the Government 
of India or the Government of any State other than the 
giving of v,ote by such person, if he is a member of the 
Institute entitled to vote. 

(5) The hiring or procuring, whethe'r on payment or 
otherwise, of a vehicle by candidate or by any other per- 
son with the connivance of a candidate, for the convey- 
ance of voters. 

(6) The canvassing for votes, or soliciting the vote of 
any voter, or persuading any voter not to vote fot any 
particular candidate, or persuading any voter not to vote 
at the election, or exhibiting any notice or sign board 
(other than an official notice) relating to the election, 
by a candidate or by any other pel-son with the conni- 
vance of a candidate within a distance of 200 meters 
from a polling booth. 

(7) Any act specified in clauses (I) to (6), when 
done by a member of the Institute who is not a candidate 
or a member acting with the connivance of a candidate. 

(8) The receipt of, or agreement to receive, any 
gratification whether as a motive or a reward — 

(a) by a membet for standing or not standing as, 
or withdrawing from being, a candidate; or 



Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1699 


(b) by any member whomsoever for himself or any 
other person for voting or refraining from 
voting, or fot inducing or attempting to indue 
any voter to vote or refrain from voting, or any 
candidate to withdraw his candidature. 


(9) Contravention or misuse of any of the provisions 
of this Chapter or making of any false statement know- 
ing it to be false or without knowing it to be true while 
complying with any of the provisions of this Chapter. 

70A. Dispute regarding election. — (1) On receipt of 
an application under sub-section (2) of Section 10 of the 


Act, the President shall refer the matter to the Tribunal 
within thirty days of the receipt of the application. 

(2) At the time of giving its decision, the Tribunal 
shall also pass an order in regard to the costs. If the 
Tribunal is satisfied that an application made under sub- 
section (2) of Section 10 of the Act was not founded 
on a valid ground, the Tribunal may award the costs to 
the Institute. 

S. N. GHOSE, 
Secretary. 


EMPLOYEES’ STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Regional Office Assam Region 


Gauhati, dated the 5th August 1970 


No. £-17/10. — It is hereby notified that the Local Committee set up vide this Office Notification No. E-17/10, dated 14-11-1969 
for Dhubri in Assam Region under Regulation 10-A of the Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950, has been recons- 
tituted as follows : — 


Chairman 

Under Regulation 10-A (a) 
Members 

Under Regulation 10-A (b) 
Under Regulation 10-A (c) 
Under Regulation 10-A (d) 

Under Regulation 10-A (e) 


Under Regulation 10-A (6) 


. The Civil Surgeon, District Goalpara, Dhubri. 

The Labour Officer, Dhubri. 

. The Administrative Medical Officer, E. S. I. Scheme, Rehabari, Gauhati-8. 

. (i) Shri V. S. Pathvardhan, Manager, Assam Match Co., Dhubri. 

(ii) Shri Dhanraj Surama, Manager, M/s Sankar Industries, Dhubri. 

(i) Shri Anilesh Ghosh, General Secretary, A. M. Co. Sramik Sangha and President of 
Dhubri Plywood Workers’ Union, Dhubri. 

(ii) Shri Anil Kumar Mitra Mazumdar, Assistant Secretary, Goalpara. District Oil & 
Rice Mills Workers’ Union, Dhubri. 

Manager, Local office, E. S. I. Corporation, Secretary. 


By Order 
V. K. SAKSENA, 
Regional Director 


Trichur, the 3rd October 1970 

No. KL/ INS/ CBS-1 (1). — In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10(A) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL/INS? 
CBS-7(l)/6 dated 15th April, 1969. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)d 
for the entry against item (6) the following entry shall 
be substituted namely : — 

“Shri P. Krishnan Nair, Manager, 

Vanaja Textiles, 

Kuruchikara”. 

By Ordet 

No. KL/ INS/ CBS-7 (1). — In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10(A) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL/INS/ 
CBS-7(l)/8 dated the 15th April, 1969, 

299GI/70— 2 


In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)e 
for the entry against item (9) the 'following entry shall 
be substituted, namely : — 

“Shri N. Raman Nair, 

Vice-President, 

I.N.T.U.C., Cannanore.” 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)d 
for the entry against SI. No. (4) the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely : — 

“Janab A. K. Kunjalikutty, 

Managing Director, 

Western India Cottons Ltd., 

Pappinissery.” 

By Order 

No. KL/INS/ CBS-1 (1). — In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10(A) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL/INS/ 
CBS-7 ( 1 ) / 5 dated the 15th April, 1969. 


1700 


THE GAZEETE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Stc. 4 


In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)b 
for the entry against item (2) the following entry shall be 
substituted, namely : — 

“District Labour Officer, 

Alwaye”. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)e 
for the entry against SI. No. (11) the following shall be 
substituted, namely : — 

“Shri V. G. Bhaskaran Nair, 

President, 

T.C.M. Employees’ Association, 

Kalamassery’’. 

By Order 

No. KL/ INS/ CBS-1 (1). — In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10(A) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL/INS/ 
CBS-7(l)/2 dated 15th April, 1969. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)e 
'for the entry against item (8) the following entry shall be 
substituted, namely : — 

“Shri K. C. Mohanan, 

Secretary, Kerala Kasuandi Thozhilali, 

Kendra Council, 

Kilikollur.” 

By Ordef 

No. K L/ INS/ CBS-1 (1). — In exercise of the powers- 
conferred under Regulation 10(A) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL/INS/ 
CBS-7 ( 1 ) / 3 dated 15th April, 1969. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)e 
for the entry against item (10) the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely : — 

“Shri T. V. Ramesh Chandran, 

Vice-President, 

The Travancore Coir Factory Workers’ Union, 
Alleppey”. 

By Ordet 

No. KL/INS/ CBS-7 (1 ) . — In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10(A) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Corporation Notification No. KL/INS/ 
CBS-7(1 ) / (4) dated 15th April, 1969. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)d 
for the entries against items (4) & (5) the following 
entries shall be substituted respectively, namely : — 

“Shri Zacharia Osman Sait, 

C/o M/s. Ebrahim Mohamed Hashim & Brothers, 
Cochin-2.” 
and 

“Shri P. Setharam, 

Secretary, The Cochin Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry, 

Cochin-3.” 

By Ordef 

No. KL/INS/ CBS-1 (1) . — In exercise of the powers 
conferred under Regulation 10(A) of the ESI (General) 
Regulations, 1950 the following amendment is hereby 
effected to the Cornoration Notification No. KL/INS/ 
CBS-7(1)7 dated the 15th April, 1969. 

In the said Notification under Regulation 10-A(l)d 
for the entry against SI. No. (6) the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely : — - 


“Shri Balakrishnan Nair, 

Manager, Pioneer Hosiery (P) Ltd., 

Kallai, 

Calicut.” 

By order 

S. A. N. MURTHY 
Regional Director 


PANJAB UNIVERSITY ( CHANDIGARH ) 
Chandigarh, the 6th October 1970 

The Central Government (Ministry of Education) 
have accorded approval vide their letter No. F. 3-1/69-U. 
1, dated 3-9-1970, to the following regulations : — 

1. Regulation 8 relating to Faculties (Chapter II) at page 
46 of the Calendar. Vol. I, 1970, shall Iread as 
under : — 

8.1. A person shall not be eligible to seek election, 
who : 

(a) in one way or the other, is involved in publica- 
tion of cheap notes, guides or help-books. 

(b) by himself or by any person or body of persons, 
in trust fof him or for his benefit or on his 
account he has any share of interest in : — 

(i) a firm engaged in printing, publishing or 
selling books to or for the use of the 
University or students of any of its 
courses, 

(ii) a contract for supply of goods to the 
University. 

(iii) execution of any works of the University. 

Provided further that no person elected as a 
member shall continue to hold his office if he 
incurs any of the disqualifications mentioned in 
(i), (ii) and (iii) above. 

(c) is a student of a recognised or affiliated institu- 
tion or a private candidate appearing in a 
University Examination. 

If any dispute arises whether any person is eligible to 
seek election or has incurred any of the disqualifications, 
the question shall be determined by the Chancellor whose 
decision shall be final. 

8.2. A person shall not be eligible to seek election to a 
Faculty and if he is already a member he shall cease to 
hold his respective office 

(a) if he is shown as author, or collaborator of a 
book prescribed for a University examination 
excepting M.A. course, whether or not he has 
in fact contributed to the writing of the book; 
or 

(b) if he is found, after a proper enquiry to be the 
writer of such book, though his name does not 
appear as an author, co-author or collaborator. 

Persons affected by these provisions shall be given a 
chance to defend their cases before final action is taken 
by the University. 

Provided that this shall not apply to a person who 
wrote a book at the instance of the University and did 
not receive any royalty for the same. 

2. Regulation 1 relating to the Syndicate (Chapter HI) 
at page 50 of the Calendar, Volume I, 1970. shall read 
as under : — ■ 



Part III— Sec. 4] 

Je_ - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1701 


1.1. The Fellows assigned to the Faculties mentioned 
in this Regulation shall elect from amongst themselves 
lilteen ex-officio or Ordinary Fellows as members of the 
Syndicate in the following proportion : 

Two by the Faculty of Languages. 

Three by the Faculty of Arts. 

Three by the Faculty of Science & Mathematics. 

Two by the Faculty of Law. 

Two by the Faculty of Medical Sciences. 

Three by the Faculties of Agriculture, Dairying & 
Animal Husbandry, Education, Commerce, Engineer- 
ing & Technology and Design & Fine Arts. 

Provided that a person shall not be eligible to seek 
election, il whether by himself or by any person or body 
of persons in trust lor him or for his benefit or on his 
account he has any share or interest in : — 

(i) a firm engaged in printing, publishing or selling 
books to or for tne use of the University or 
students of any of its courses; 

(ii) a contract for supply of goods to the 
University; 

(iii) execution of any works of the University. 

Provided further that no person elected as a member 
shall continue to hold his office if he incurs any of the 
disqualifications mentioned in (i), (ii) and (iii) above. 

If any dispute arises whether any person is eligible to 
seek election or has incurred any of the disqualifications, 
the question shall be determined by the Chancellor whose 
decision shall be final. 

1.2. A person shall not be eligible to seek election to 
the Syndicate and if he is already a member he shall 
cease to hold his respective office : — 

(a) if he is shown as author, or collaborator of a 
book prescribed for a University examination 
excepting M.A. course , whether or not he has 
in fact contributed to the writing of the book; or 

(b) if he is found, after a proper enquiry to be the 
writer of such book, though his name does not 
appear as an author, co-author or collaborator. 

Persons affected by these provisions shall be given a 
chance to defend their cases before final action is taken 
by the University. 

Provided that this shall not apply to a person who 
wrote a book at the instance of the University and did 
not receive any royalty for the same. 

1.3. A new Syndicate shall be elected not later than 
December 31 of each year and its year of office shall 
commence from the 1st January following. 

Each Fellow shall be entitled to vote for as many 
candidates as there are Syndics to be elected. A candidate 
shall be proposed and seconded and voting shall be by 
ballot. A fresh vote shall be taken when equality of 
votes makes this necessary. If the votes are equal after 
,a second vote is taken, the Chairman shall have a second 
or casting vote. 

3. Regulation 9 relating to Board of Studies (Chapter V) 
at page 64 of the Calendar, Volume I, 1970, shall 
read as under : — 

9.1. A person working in an affiliated college, who, in 
one way or the other, is involved in publication of cheap 
notes, guides or help-books shall not be eligible to become 
a member of a Board of Studies. 

9.2. A person shall not be eligible to seek election to 
a Board of Studies and if he is already a member he shall 
cease to hold his respective office : — 


(a) if he is shown as author or collaborator of a 
book prescribed for a University examination 
excepting M.A. course, whether or not he has 
in fact contributed to the writing of the book; 
or 

(b) if he is found, after a proper enquiry to be the 
writer of such book, though his name does not 
appear as an author, co-author or collaborator. 

Persons affected by these provisions shall be given a 
chance to defend their cases before final action is taken 
by the University. 

Provided that this shall not apply to a person who 
wrote a book at the instance of the University and did 
not receive any royalty for the same. 

K. C. WALIA 

Dated : October 6, 1970. Officer on Special Duty 

Sealed in my presence with the Common Seal of the 
Panjab University this day the 6th of October, 1970. 

JAGJIT SINGH 
Registrar 


AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION 
SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT 1969-70 

Bombay, the 29 th September 1970 

No. G.S.R. — In pursuance of Section 32(2) of the 
Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963 (10 of 
1963), the report of the Board on the working of the 
Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1970 and the 
Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss Account of the 
Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1970 are pub- 
lished hereunder : 

The Directors have pleasure in presenting their seventh 
annual report along with the audited statement of accounts 
for the year ended 30 June 1970. For the second year in 
succession, the Corporation earned a profit which after 
providing fully for its liabilities to tax leaves it able to 
meet its statutory liability to pay a minimum dividend of 
4 a per cent to the shareholders, without a subvention 
from the Government of India. The growing trend in the 
Corporation’s business was maintained, but an even more 
satisfactory feature of the year's operations was an im- 
provement on the part of the financing institutions in the 
physical implementation of schemes and utilization of re- 
finance sanctioned by the Corporation. 

The total financial assistance sanctioned by the Corpo- 
ration since its inception on 1 July 1963 until 30 June 
1970 amounts Rs. 260 crores and its commitments to 
Rs. 215 crores representing an increase of Rs. 87 crores 
and Rs. 67 crores, respectively, during the year as com- 
pared with an increase of Rs. 73 crores and Rs. 64 crores, 
respectively, during the year 1968-69. The amount of 
refinance availed of from the Corporation during 1969-70 
was Rs. 29 crores and formed 46 per cent of its commit- 
ments for that year as compared with Rs. 18 crores and 
39 per cent in the preceding year.' The amount disbursed 
by the Corporation since its inception up to 30 June 1970 
was Rs. 59 crores, accounting for 64 per cent of its cumu- 
lative commitments until that date, as compared with 
Rs 30 crores and 52 per cent at the end of the previous 
year. The surplus left as a result of operations during 
1969-70, after meeting tax and dividend liabilities, comes 
to Rs. 9.02 lakhs as compared with Rs. 0.13 lakh in 
1968-69. 



1702 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


The foregoing developments which represent a greater 
participation by the Corporation in the overall lending 
programmes of the land development banks, underline the 
fact that the Corporation has accepted and is confidently 
playing its role as the leader, as well as the refinancier, of 
co-operative banking institutions in the country engaged 
in providing capital investment for agricultural develop- 
ment. Against this backgroun of growth of responsibility, 
however, the Corporation will have to keep under cons- 
tant review its terms of lending because of the increased 
cost to it of raising resources. Until the end of 1968-69, 
the Corporation borrowed entirely from the Government 
of India at 5 per cent for loans up to 9 years and at 5i 
per cent for loans up to 15 years with a rebate of 1 per 
cent for prompt payment of interest. As a result of the 
need for additional resources during 1969-70, the Corpo- 
ration had to issue bonds in the open market for meeting 
its commitments made under sanctioned schemes. The 
Corporation had to pay interest at 5 J per cent per annum 
on funds raised through the issue of bonds. The actual 
cost of such market borrowings came to about 6 per cent 
due to factors such as payment of stamp duty. This in- 
creased cost of borrowing will be reflected in the opera- 
tions of the Corporation with effect from the next year. 
The Corporation, however, has decided to withhold, for 
the time being, any increase in its general refinance rate, 
which thus continuous to be 6 per cent per annum. In 
arriving at this decision the Corporation has taken due 
account of the recommendation of the All-India Rural 
Credit Review Committee (1969) that the Government 
of India should amend the relevant laws so as to enable 
the Corporation to borrow substantially from the National 
Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund of the 
Reserve Bank of India at a concessional rate. 


A noteworthy feature of the working of the Corpora- 
tion during the year was its active association with the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(IBRD) and its affiliate the International Development 
Association (IDA), in financing capital investment for 
modernizing and increasing the productive capacity of 
agriculture. Three Projects, viz-, the Tarai Seeds Project 


(IBRD) and the Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project 
(IDA) and the Punjab Agricultural Credit Project (IDA) 
have been approved. Under the agreements between 
IBRD/ IDA, the Government of India, the Corporation 
and the financing institutions concerned, the IBRD will 
provide loans to the Government of India 'for the Tarai 
Project to the extent of $ 13.00 million (Rs. 9.75 crores), 
of which Rs. 6.75 crores will be made available through 
the Corporation. IDA will provide loans to the Govern- 
ment of India to the extent of $ 35 million (Rs. 26.25 
crores) for the Gujarat Project and $ 27.5 million 
(Rs. 20.63 crores) for the Punjab Project, the amounts to 
be made available through the Corporation being 
Rs. 26.03 crores and Rs. 20.63 crores respectively. The 
Corporation will receive these amounts as loans from the 
Government of India, on the usual terms and conditions. 
It is expected that assistance will be provided by IDA for 
similar projects in a few other states also, through the 
Corporation. Details have been given elsewhere in this 
Report. 

While refinancing viable schemes of agricultural deve- 
lopment in the various states, the Corporation has taken 
pains to ensure, within its power, that the promotion of 
schemes in under-developed areas receives special and 
urgent attention. The Corporation has opened new re- 
gional offices with a view to stimulating this process of 
locating and formulating schemes of development which 
can be assisted by the Corporation. However, the effec- 
tiveness of its assistance is governed by the enterprise and 
response on the part of the local financial institutions and 
the state governments concerned. 


Review of Total Operations 
Financial Operations 

The Corporation had sanctioned 371 schemes up to 30 
June 1970 involving financial assistance of Rs. 259.51 
crores to the ultimate borrowers, of which the Corpora- 
tion’s share would be Rs. 214.89 crores. The following 
table shows the position : 


Review of Total Operations 


Rs. Crores 


1 


1963- 64 

1964- 65 

1965- 66 

1966- 67 

1967- 68 

1968- 69 

1969- 70 



No. of 

No. of Schemes 

withdrawn 

Total Financial 

ARC’S 


Schemes 

during the year by financing 

Assistance for 

commitment 

Year 

sanctioned 

banks 


schemes sane- 

under 


during the 

t 

— 3 

tioned during 

Col. 4 


year 

Out of 

Out of 

the year after 




schemes 

schemes 

excluding schemes 




sanctioned 

sanctioned 

under Col. 3* 




during the 

during the 





year previous years 




3 

10 

24 

16 

89 

112 

147 

401 


4 

5 


1 

9 

3 

3 

4 


10 


20 


5 

6 

2-23 

1 

© 

CT 

11 -96 

10-07 

13-65 

10-85 

9-13 

7-07 

61 -61 

53 -72 

73 -46 

64-28 

87 -47 

66-89 

259 -51 

214-89 


♦After making adjustments for re-phasing 



Rjsrt III — Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 1 , 1892) 


l7o$ 


The growth in the pace of accretion of new business, 
which has quickened since 1967-68, continued during 
1969-70. 

Withdrawal of Funds 

The physical targets under each scheme take into 
account the demand for the type of investment envisaged 
from eligible borrowers, the capacity of the financing ins- 
titutions and the availability of technical guidance and 
materials and equipment needed for carrying out the 
works. Further, financial assistance provided under a 
scheme for a given programme of works, based on the 
estimated cost of labour, materials and equipment, is an 
approximation of the assistance likely to be required by 
cultivators for financing the investments under the scheme. 
The actual amount needed by the cultivators, taking into 
account their own contribution in terms of labour and 
money, may in practice be found to be less than that 


provided for under a scheme. In view of the above, 
complete correspondence between physical and financial 
targets and achievements cannot be expected. The 
divergence between the two, however, can become larger 
than that normally justified on account of failure to 
anticipate difficulties, lack of co-ordination between the 
various agencies responsible for the implementation of a 
programme and want of initiative on the part of the 
financing banks and the departmental agencies. 

In view of the foregoing, the Corporation has been pay- 
ing spec'al attention to the timely execution of sanctioned 
schemes, along with the formulation of new schemes by 
the financing agencies and the state governments. The 
following table shows the position regarding withdrawal 
of funds by the financing banks in relation to sanctioned 
outlays, for each year, after making allowance for re- 
phasing in a particular year : 


Rs. Crores 


Year 



No. of 
sanctioned 
schemes 
under im- 
plementa- 
tion at 
the end of 
each year 

Corpo 
commitme 
of schemes 
the 

ration’s 
nt in respect 
according to 

Debentures subscribed 
to and loans drawn 
from ARC 

Percentage of 
drawals to 
commitment 


During 
the year 

Up to the 
end of the 
year 

During 
the year 

Up to 
the end of 
the year 

During 
the year 

Up to the 
end of the 
year 

1963-4 



3 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

— 

1964-5 . . 



13 

4-47 

4-47 

0-45 

0-45 

10-1 

10-1 

1965-6 . . 



36 

8-28 

8-73 

4-45 

4-90 

53 -7 

56-1 

1966-7 . . 



42 

9-40 

14-30 

2-08 

6-98 

22-1 

48 -8 

1967-8 . . 



128 

18-50 

25 -48 

5-67 

12-65 

30-6 

49-6 

1968-9 . . 



233 

45-94 

58 -59 

17-84 

30 -49 

38-8 

52-0 

1969-70 



371 

61 -66 

92-15 

28 -60 

59-09 

46 -4 

64-1 


Thus, the percentage of withdrawals to commitments 
during the year will be seen to have been rising very satis- 
factorily from 1966-67 to 1969-70. The improvement in 
the implementing capacity of the financing institutions has 
continued, largely as a result of the experience gained by 
them. Overall, the proportion of withdrawals to the 
Corporation’s commitment up to 30 June 1970, stood at 
64 per oent, as compared with 52 per cent at the end of 
the previous year. The percentage of withdrawals to com- 
mitments during the year stood at 46 in 1969-70 as 
against 39 in 1968-69. There is, however, room for even 
further improvement. In 1969-70, the Corporation had to 
levy commitment charges totalling Rs. 1.53 lakhs. It is 
the Corporation’s hope that the need for levying such 
charges to any appreciable extent will not arise in the 
future because such charges are the outcome of faulty 
scheme preparation and implementation by the financing 
banks and the departmental agencies. 

Schemes Sanctioned 

The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpora- 
tion since its inception up to 30 June 1970 according to 
purpose, agency of finance and state is described below. 

Schemes : By Purpose 

Appendix One classifies according to their purpose the 
371 schemes sanctioned by the Corporation up to 30 June 
1970. Schemes for the development of minor irrigation 
works, those for the development of land localized under 
irrigation projects and schemes for the development of 
plantations and orchards predominated, as was the case 
even by the end of the previous year. However, the share 
of schemes 'for the construction of godowns and farm 


mechanization increased, in the total financial assistance 
sanctioned, as compared with the position at the end of 
the previous year. This trend towards some degree of 
diversification in the types of activities assisted by the 
Corporation is expected to gather momentum in the future, 
although the emphasis on assisting the development of 
minor irrigation works is bound to continue on account of 
their importance in the programmes of increasing agricul- 
tural production within a short time. 

The proportion of financial assistance sanctioned to 
the total for schemes of minor irrigation, land develop- 
ment and development of plantations and orchards was 
60 per cent, 23 per cent and 9 per cent as at the end of 
1969-70 as compared with 64 per cent, 21 per cent and 9 
per cent, respectively, as at the end of 1968-69. Schemes 
for construction of storage facilities and farm-mechaniza- 
tion accounted for 3 per cent and 2 per cent of the total 
financial assistance sanctioned as at the end of 1969-70 
as compared with 1 per cent and less than 1 per cent as 
at the end of 1968-69. There was also an increase in the 
proportion of financial assistance sanctioned for fisheries, 
dairy and poultry development at the end of 1969-70, as 
compared to the position at the end of -the previous year. 

Schemes : By Agency of Finance 

The distribution of schemes by the Corporation as at 
the end of 1969-70 classified by their primary financing 
agencies is given in Appendix Two. Although co-opera- 
tive central land development banks continued to claim 
the bulk of the financial assistance sanctioned by the 
Corporation, the share of the scheduled commercial 
banks and the state co-operative banks increased signi- 
ficantly over the year, reflecting the sustained efforts 



1704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. 4 


made by the Corporation to stimulate formulation of 
schemes by these banks for assistance by the Corpora- 
tion on an area basis. The share of central land deve- 
lopment banks, commercial banks and state co-operative 
banks in the financial assistance sanctioned by the 
Corporation up to 30 June 1970 was 86.5 per cent, 8 
per cent and 5.5 per cent as compared to 94 per cent, 2 
per cent and 4 per cent last year. The trend towards 
diversification of assistance provided by the Corporation 
according to agency of finance is expected to continue 
although the co-operative central land development 
banks would continue to account for a substantial pro- 
portion ctf the assistance provided by the Corporation. 

Schemes : State-wise 

The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpo- 
ration up to 30 June 1970 is given in Appendix Three. 

Physical Achievements 

The tangible assets created out of the financial assis- 
tance provided under the schemes sanctioned by the 
Corporation, up to the end of June 1970, may be re- 
ferred to in terms of the physical aspects of development 
which has already taken place or is under way. In the 
sphere of minor irrigation works. 63,060 wells had been 
constructed or were under construction with the help of 
financial assistance provided to cultivators up to 30 June 
1970, under schemes sanctioned by the Corporation since 
its inception. Of these, 32,678 were tubewells and 30,382 
were dug-wells. A large proportion of these wells were 
energized with diesel or electric pumpsets. Under the 
Corporation’s schemes, purchase of 57,794 pumpsets had 
been financed, most of them for tubewells and wells cons- 
tructed under these schemes and some, for energizing 
existing wells. On the assumption that a tubewell and 
a well would generally provide assured irrigation for 
two crops during a year over an area of about 10 acres 
and 5 acres, respectively, it can be inferred that about 
480,000 acres of land have been or are being brought 
under double-cropping with the help of financial assis- 
tance provided so far under the Corporation’s minor 
irrigation schemes. As an adjunct to the minor irriga- 
tion schemes sanctioned by the Corporation, in a num- 
ber of cases, assistance has been provided or laying elec- 
tric lines by the state electricity boards, under an arrange- 
ment by which these boards receive long-term deposits 
for this purpose from the cultivators out of the finan- 
cial assistance provided by the Corporation. Similarly, 
financial assistance has been provided under some of 
these schemes for the construction of water conveyance 
systems so as to conserve water. 

Development of tubewells under the Corporation’s 
schemes has so far taken, place mainly in the Indo- 
Gangetic plain, mainly because of the known potentiali- 
ties of tubewells development in this area. In Punjab, 
Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Bihar, installation of 
15,549, 7,785, 6,549 and 1,113 tubewells, respectively 
had been financed up to the end of June 1970. In 
Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat also, installation of 1,516 
and 71 tubewells had been financed. As a result of in- 
vestigations which have been or are being carried out, 
however, schemes for the installation of tubewells in 
other states have also been sanctioned or are under con- 
sideration. The development in tins regard, therefore, 
can be expected to show a greater degree of diversifica- 
tion in the coming years. 

Construction of open wells under the Corporation’s 
schemes has been relatively more widespread. The num- 
ber of wells constructed or under construction in the 
schemes refinanced by the Corporation at the end of 
June 1970 came to 10,769 in Andhra Pradesh, 4,008 
in Uttar Pradesh, 3,989 in Gujarat, 2,134 in Maharash- 
tra, 1,824 in Mysore, 1,510 in Haryana, 1,357 in Rajas- 
than, 202 in Kerala and 69 in Bihar. 


Development of land localized under large irrigation 
projects has been another important activity which the 
Corporation has helped to finance. These lands are 
generally under rain-fed cultivation before they are 
brought under the command of irrigation projects. They 
are often undulating and require levelling, bunding, etc., 
and have to be provided with water conveyance systems 
in order to make them fit for receiving irrigation. Lack 
of attention to this aspect and the inadequacy of finan- 
cial assistance for the purpose have contributed to the 
under-utilization of the irrigation potential of such pro- 
jects. Under the Corporation’s schemes, development 
of 554.000 acres under such projects had already taken 
place or was in progress, as at the end of June 1970. 
Of these, 302,000 acres were in Andhra Pradesh under 
the Nagarjunasagar and Tungabhadra High Level Canal 
Projects 145,000 acres in Mysore under the Tungabha- 
dra, Bhadra and Ghataprabha Projects; 84,000 acres in 
Tamil Nadu, under the Parambikulam Aliyar Project; 
17,000 acres in _ Maharashtra, under the Bor, Nalganga 
and Ghod-Gangapur Projects; 2,840 acres in Bihar, 
under the Kosi Project; 1,437 acres in Madhya Pradesh, 
under the Chambal Project; 1,308 acres in Orissa, under 
the Hirakud Project and 673 acres in Rajasthan under 
the Chambal scheme. 

The Corporation has also been assisting the develop- 
ment of plantations and orchards. The help provided by 
the Corporation in this sphere covers a variety of plan- 
tation and orchard crops. New plantations and orchards 
covering an area of 9,644 acres under coconuts, 3,326 
acres under coffee, 2,699 acres under tea, 1,787 acres 
under arecanuts, 1,704 acres under mangoes, 1,389 
acres under oranges, 1,619 acres under rubber, 405 acres 
under grapes, 98 acres under citrus fruits other than 
oranges and 80 acres under cardamom had been or were 
being developed with the help of financial assistance al- 
ready provided under the Corporation’s schemes up to 
the end of June 1970. 

The financial assistance provided under the Corpora- 
tion’s schemes for the development of fisheries, construc- 
tion of storage facilities and mechanization of farming 
had led to the acquisition of new capital assets by culti- 
vators and fishermen. In North and South Kanara Dis- 
tricts of Mysore, 285 mechanized fishing boats had been 
constructed under the Corporation’s schemes and 10 
such boats were constructed in Madras and Chingleput 
Districts of Tamil Nadu. Cultivators in Karnal Dis- 
trict of Haryana and in the area of the Kosi Project in 
Bihar had purchased 235 and 59 tractors, respectively, 
under the Corporation’s schemes. In South Kanara Dis- 
trict of Mysore, cultivators had purchased 126 power 
tillers under these schemes. In Punjab, construction of 
87 godowns at various mandi centres had been complet- 
ed, with a capacity of 156,000 tonnes. This construc- 
tion of storage facilities is being assisted by the ARC, 
particularly with a view to facilitating the orderly 
marketing of the additional production of agricultural 
commodities under the schemes sanctioned by it. 

Operations During 1969-70 
Sanctioned Schemes 

The Corporation sanctioned 147 schemes during 
1969-70 of which 5 were withdrawn subsequently by 
the financing institutions. The financial assistance sanc- 
tioned under the remaining 142 schemes was for about 
Rs. 93 crores, the ARC’S commitment thereunder being 
about Rs. 71 crores. The distribution of these 142 
schemes by purpo ,c, agency of finance and state, is re- 
ferred to below. 

Schemes : By Purpose 

The following table gives the distribution of schemes 
sanctioned by the Corporation during the year 1969-70, 
according to purpose. 




Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1705 


Period : 1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970 







Rs Crores 

Type of Schemes 

No. of 
Schemes 

Financial 

Assistance 

ARC’S 

Commitment 

State Govern- 
ments’ and 
Banks’/Parties’ 
Commitment 

Minor Irrigation 

62 

48 -68 

43-81 

4-87 

Land Reclamation 

11 

25 -99 

16-03 

9-96 

Plantation and Horticulture 

54 

5-80 

4-23 

1-57 

Poultry Farming 

1 

0 01 

0-005 

0-005 

Dairy 

1 

0 04 

0-01 

0-03 

Godowns 

3 

5-52 

1 -92 

3-60 

Fisheries 

3 

1-77 

1-19 

0-58 

Farm Mechanization 

7 

4-97 

3-72 

1-25 


142 

92-78 

70-915 

21 -865 

Under the minor irrigation schemes sanctioned during 
the year, 46,484 open wells and 3,983 tubewells are to 
be constructed or renovated. Finance will also be provid- 
ed for purchase of 48,613 diesel and electric pumpsets. 
An amount of Rs. 3.70 crores was sanctioned during 
the year for deposits with the state electricity boards in 
order to enable them to provide electric connexions to 
the wells of cultivators. 

Eleven land reclamation schemes were sanctioned in 
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Punjab, Tamil Nadu 
and Uttar Pradesh involving development of 309,800 
acres of land in the command areas of the Kosi (Bihar), 
Chambal (Madhya Pradesh), Parambikulam Oliyar 
(Tamil Nadu) and Tarai Seeds Development Project in 
Uttar Pradesh as well as few small irrigation projects in 
Punjab and Orissa. Under 54 schemes sanctioned for 
plantations and horticulture, 41,662 acres under tea, 

coffee, rubber, cardamom, coconut, cashewnut, apples 
and grapevine are to be developed. Under 7 farm mecha- 
nization schemes, 1,656 tractors will be provided to culti- 
vators. Three schemes for the construction of storage 
facilities were sanctioned in Gujarat, Punjab and Uttar 
Pradesh under which 256 godowns with a capacity of 
452,000 tonnes will be constructed. Three fisheries 
schemes were sanctioned in Tamil Nadu and Maharash- 
tra under which 115 mechanized boats and 40 trawlers 
will be supplied to fishermen along with boat-building 
yard, freezing plant and transport vehicles. 

Schemes : By Agency of Finance 

The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpo- 
ration during the year according to the agency of 
finance is given below : 

Period 

1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970 







Rs. Crores 

Agencies of Finance 

No. of 
Schemes 

Financial 

Assistance 

Corporation’s 

Commitment 

State Govern- 
ments’ and 
Banks’ /Parties’ 
Commitment 

Central Land Development Banks 

85 

69-18 

59-18 

10-00 

State Co-operative Banks 

7 

7-42 

3-24 

4-18 

Scheduled Commercial Banks 

50 

16-18 

8-50 

7-68 


142 

92 -78 

70-92 

21 -86 


Out of the 85 schemes to be fulfilled through central 
land development banks, 62 were for the development 
of minor irrigation works, 9 for land reclamation, 8 
for plantation and horticulture and 6 for farm mechani- 
zation. Of the 50 schemes to be refinanced through 
scheduled commercial banks, 45 were for the develop- 
ment of plantations. The remaining five schemes com- 
prised two for land development, one for purchase of 
tractors, one 'for dairy farming and one for poultry farm- 
ing. Of the seven schemes sanctioned through the state 
co-operative banks, three were for construction of 
godowns, three for development of fisheries and one for 
horticulture. 


Of the total financial assistance sanctioned during the 
year, schemes to be implemented through land develop- 
ment banks, commercial banks and state co-operative 
banks accounted for 75 per cent, 17 per cent and 8 per 
cent respectively, the corresponding percentages in res- 
pect of schemes sanctioned during 1968-69 being 96, 2 
and 2 respectively. 

Schemes : Slate-wise 

The distribution of schemes sanctioned by the Corpo- 
ration during 1969-70, according to the states is indicated 
below ; 


1706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


Period : 

1 July 1969 to 30 June 1970 







Rs. Crores 

Name of State 

No. of 
Schemes 

Financial 

Assistance 

Corporation’s State Govem- 
Commitment ments’. Banks’ 
and Parties’ 
Commitment 

Andhra Pradesh 

11 

6-20 

5-58 

0-62 

Assam 

3 

0-27 

0-18 

0-09 

Bihar . . 

2 

6-23 

4-75 

1 -48 

Gujarat . . 

24 

14-26 

12-10 

2-16 

Haryana 

4 

2-14 

1 -89 

0-25 

Jammu & Kashmir . . . . 

1 

0-95 

0-71 

0-24 

Kerala 

1 

0-67 

0-21 

0-46 

Madhya Pradesh 

5 

3-27 

2-91 

0-36 

Maharashtra 

8 

5-94 

5-11 

0-8 3 

Mysore 

40 

10-40 

9-09 

1-31 

Orissa 

5 

1 -33 

1 00 

0-33 

Punjab 

6 

6-26 

5-13 

1 -13 

Rajasthan 

5 

3-70 

3-33 

0-37 

Tamil Nadu . . 

20 

11 -21 

9-61 

1 -60 

Uttar Pradesh 

5 

19-90 

9-28 

10-62 

West Bengal 

2 

0-05 

0-04 

0-01 


142 

92-78 

70-92 

21 -86 

The gross disbursements made by the Agricultural Re- 
finance Corporation during the year on account of sanc- 
tioned schemes amounted to Rs. 28.60 crores as against 
Rs. 17.84 crores during the previous year. The disburse- 

ments made during the year according to state, agency 
of finance and purpose of schemes, is given in Appendix 
Four. The, gross amount disbursed by the Corporation 
during each year since its inception is indicated below : 





Rs. Crores 

Year 



Amount disbursed 

1963-64 _ 

• • • • « • 



— 

1964-65 

. . . . 



0-45 

1965-66 

• • 



4-45 

1966-67 

. . « . • • 



2-08 

1967-68 




5-67 

1968-69 

. . 



>-» 

do 

4^ 

1969-70 




28 -60 





59 -09 

Rephasing 

World Bank Agricultural Credit Projects 

Some of the schemes sanctioned by the Corporation in 
earlier years were rephased or revised during the year 
at the request of the financing banks. The Corporation 
approved revision of 56 schemes sanctioned through the 
land development banks. The revision related to the ex- 
tension of the phasing, reallocation of the physical pro- 
gramme or an increase or- decrease in these programmes. 
The revision or the rephasing of the schemes was caused 
by factors such as paucity of technical personnel, equip- 
ment or materials, revisions in the cost of development, 
smaller or larger loans required by cultivators and inade- 
quate preparatory steps taken by the financing banks and 
the state governments. 

In the case of commercial banks and state co-operative 
banks, 9 schemes and 4 schemes respectively, were re- 
phased or revised during the year. 

As referred to earlier, the, World Bank, in consultation 
with the Government of India, has agreed to consider the 
provision of financial assistance through the Corporation, 
for promoting capital investment in agriculture. The 
assistance will be provided by IBRD and IDA to the 
Government of India. The Co’-ooration will receive 
loans from the Government of India, representing IBRD 
and IDA credits, on the usual terms and conditions. 

Agreements have been reached in respect of three 
Projects, namely the Tarai Seeds Project in Uttar Pradesh, 
the Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project and the Punjab 
Agricultural Credit Project. While the Tarai Seeds Pro- 
ject became effective during 1969-70, the Gujarat and the 
Punjab Projects are due to become effective during 1970- 
71. The amount of these credits and the purposes for 
which they may be drawn upon, are indicated below ; 




PART III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1 892) 1707 


Tarai Seeds Project 

Category 

Project 

Amount from IBRD 


Amount in 
U. S. Dollars 
(Million) 

Amount 

Rupees 

Lakhs 

Amount in 

U. S. Dollars 
(Million) 

Amount 

Rupees 

Lakhs 

Farm Development and Machinery 

14 -61 

1096 -00 

7-596 

570-00 

Processing Plants (Tarai Development Corporation) 

2-97 

223 00 

0-541 

40-00 

Electrification 

0-81 

60-00 

0-261 

20-00 

Total Investment Cost 

18-39 

1379 -00 

8-398 

630 -00 

Additional Exchange Provision 

* 

* 

0-602 

45-00 

Fertilizers 

4-00 

300 00 

4 000 

300-00 

Total 

22 -39 

1679-00 

13-000 

975-00 

♦Included in individual items 

Gujarat Project 




Category 


Amount in 

U. S. Dollars 

Amount 

Rs Lakhs 


Tractors, Tractor spare parts. Harvesters, Discs and Plough Bottoms . . 

7,400,000 

555 -00 


Minor Irrigation Equipment & facilities 

. 

27,300,000 

2047 -50 


Consultant Services 

. 

300,000 

22-50 




35,000,000 

2625 -00 


Punjab Project 

Category 


Amount in 

U. S. Dollars 

Amount 

Rs Lakhs 


Imported Tractors and spare parts 

.4 .4 .4 , 

24,000,000 

1800 -00 


Imported self-propelled harvesters and spare parts 

4 • •-* 4 4 

600,000 

45-00 


Imported discs and plough bottoms 

. . 

1,200,000 

90-00 


Tractor-drawn harvesters and spare parts 


500,000 

37 -50 


Unallocated 

.. 

1,200,000 

90 00 




27,500,000 

2062-50 



The Tarai .Seeds Project is for the production of 
seeds of high yielding varieties. The seeds will be produc- 
ed by cultivators as well as the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural 
University Pantnagar, in the Tarai area of Uttar Pradesh. 
The lands of the cultivators and of the University coming 
under the Project will be developed by bunding levelling, 
installation of tubewelis, laying out of water conveyance 
systems, etc., so as to make them fit for growing quality 
seeds of high yielding varieties. Under the Gujarat 
Project, a large number of wells and tubewelis will be 
installed and energized. The Project also envisages sup- 
ply of about 2,200 tractors to farmers in the state, parti- 
cularly where the intensity of cropping can be signi- 
ficantly increased with the use of tractors. Tht Punjab 
Project is for mechanization if farming with a view to 
increasing the cropping intensity on farms coming under 
the Project. The number of tractors to be provided 
under the Project will be about 8,000. In addition, about 
220 self-propelled hajp^ters will also be provided, with 
a view to expediting Tire,' harvesting of the large wheat 
crop in the state. 

The assistance to be provided by IBRD/IDA will go 
to finance part of the total investments under each Pro- 
ject.; The proportions..pf the cost of different types of 
investments to be financed with the help of IBRD/IDA 
credits have been indicated in the Agreements relating to 
29901/70—3 


each Project. The financing under the Project will have 
to be completed by 30 June 1974 in the case of Tarai 
and Gujarat Projects and by 31 December 1972 under 
the Punjab Project. 

The Agreements reached with the IBRD/IDA deal, 
among other items, with the terms and conditions on 
which refinance would be provided by the Corporation 
to the financing institutions and by these institutions to 
the ultimate borrowers. Some of the important features 
of these Agreements are the discipline which will be 
imposed on the ordinary lending programmes of the land 
development banks, the building of technical cells in the 
banks and the setting up of groundwater cells. The 
Gujarat Project is to be implemented entirely through 
the Gujarat State Co-operative Land Development Bank. 
Under the Punjab Project, at least 80 per cent of the 
investments will be financed through the Punjab State 
Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank and not more than 20 
per cent through commercial banks. The entire finan- 
cing under the Tarai Project will be done through the 
State Bank of India. 

Schemes Under Study 

The Corporation had under its consideration 254 
schemes at the end of 1968-69,, It received 226 schemes 




1708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec; 4 


during 1969-70, of which 125 were to be implemented 
through land development banks, 81 through scheduled 
commercial banks and 20 through state co-operative 
banks. During the year, economic feasibility studies were 
completed in respect of 1 26 schemes by the officers of the 
Corporation. The Corporation secured technical feasibility 
studies of 125 schemes from the technical experts on its 
panel and also through the Exploratory Tubewells Organi- 
zation, the Geological Survey of India and the Tea Board, 
Coffee Board, Rubber Board and Cardamom Board. 

An important extension of the Corporation’s activity 
is the study of utilization of finance under sanctioned 
schemes which have come into operation at least partially. 
Suggestions for improving the implementation of schemes 
emerging from these studies were communicated to the 
state governments and the financing banks for necessary 
action. 

During the year 1969-70, 147 schemes were sanctioned 
by the Corporation — 85 from the land development banks, 
7 from state co-operative banks and 55 from scheduled 
commercial banks. The schemes withdrawn during the 
year or found to be prima facie unacceptable totalled 
108 — 68 from central land development banks, 36 from 
scheduled commercial banks and 4 from state co-operative 
banks. Thus, as on 30 June 1970, 225 schemes involving 
financial assistance of Rs. 217.56 crores were under the 
consideration of the Corporation. The schemes under con- 
sideration included 143 schemes from land development 
banks under which financial assistance of Rs. 197.72 
crores is envisaged. 52 schemes from the scheduled 
commercial banks involving financial assistance of 
Rs. 3.09 crores and 30 schemes from the state co-opera- 
tive banks involving financial assistance o'f Rs. 16.75 
crores. The distribution of schemes under the consi- 
deration of the Corporation as on 30 June 1970, according 
to state and purpose of development is given in Appendix 
Five. 


Promotional Efforts 

The Chairman as also the Managing Director of the 
Corporation held discussions with the representatives of 
the states with a view to promoting the formulation of 
new schemes and expediting the carrying out of schemes 
already sanctioned. 


The Bankers’ Training College of the Reserve Bank of 
India in Bombay and also the Co-operative Bankers’ 
Training College in Poona hold courses in agricultural 
financing for the benefit of officers of co operative and 
commercial banks. Officers of the Corporation delivered 
lecturers during such courses with a view to acquainting 
the participants with the working of the Corporation 
Two special courses on project planning and appraisal 
were also held at Poona for the benefil of the managerial 
staff of the land development banks. Officers of the 
Corporation were associated with these courses. 


With a view to assisting the financing institutions anc 
the state governments in formulating schemes which coulc 
be refianced by the Corporation, particularly in area: 
which had not availed themselves or refinance facilitie: 
trom the Corporation significantly, the Corporatior 
opened new regional offices at Ahmedabad for Gujarat 
Bhopal for Madhya Pradesh, Bhubaneswar for Orissa 
Jaipur for Rajasthan, Patna for Bihar and Trivandrun 
tor Kerala. 


Loan Policies 
Land Development Banks 

The Corporation hopes to take an active part in reagrc 
*?„ , £ scheme for small fanners recommended by the 
All-India Rural Credit Review Committee (1969) set up 


by the Governor of the Reserve Bank and since initiated 
by the Government of India. The Corporation lias re- 
cently decided to provide full refinance up to 30 June 
1971 in respect of viable schemes to agricultural develop- 
ment initiated by small farmers’ development agencies and 
which might be refinanced by it either through central 
land development banks or through commercial banks. 

The facility offered to the state governments to make 
a reduced contribution of not less than 10 per cent to the 
special development debentures to be floated by the 
central land development banks for financing minor irri- 
gation schemes as against the contribution of 25 per cent 
required from them under other types of schemes which 
was to expire on 30 June 1970 was extended by one 
more year, !.<?., up to 30 June 1971. 

The guidelines for preparation of minor irrigation 
schemes were revised to help the financing banks and 
the state governments in preparing detailed schemes con- 
taining important data on the economics of the schemes 
and the relevant hydrogeological data. 

Commercial Banks 

In order to help commercial banks to obtain refinance 
from the Corporation quickly, particularly in respect of 
the schemes received from individual entrepreneurs, 
partnership firms and companies, the Corporation has now 
entrusted the work of scrutiny of schemes for an amount 
not exceeding Rs. 5.00 lakhs to its regional offices located 
in the respective states. Earlier, the Corporation had 
prescribed one form of application for refinance for all 
purposes. The Corporation, during the year, prescribed 
separate application 'forms for different purposes to 
enable the commercial banks to furnish specific infor- 
mation relevant to the particular type of scheme. The 
form of application for schemes relating to the develop- 
ment of plantations such as tea, coffee, rubber and carda- 
mom involving a sum of Rs. 5,000 lakhs or less was 
simplified to suit the needs of small planters. 

Administration and Accounts 
Regional Offices 

The Corporation had earlier opened seven regional 
offices at Bangalore, Calcutta, Chandigarh, Coimbatore, 
Hyderabad, Kanpur and New Delhi. It established six 
more regional offices during the year at Ahmedabad, 
Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Patna and Trivandrum, 
raising the total number of regional offices to thirteen. 
The regional office of the Corporation at Coimbatore was 
shifted to Madras during the year. A separate unit to 
look after the schemes from Maharashtra was established 
in Bombay. 

In order to cope with the increase in the work, steps 
were taken during the year to strengthen the staff of the 
Corporation by increasing the sanctioned strength, es- 
pecially at the officer level, and taking on deputation, 
officers from the state governments. Further, a small 
Technical Division has been created in the head office of 
the Corporation. This expansion and strengthening has 
resulted i additional expenditure on staff during this year 
and this will continue in the future. 

Membership 

Two more scheduled commercial banks namely, the 
Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Ltd. and the Sangli Bank 
Ltd., became members of the Corporation during the 
year. The Haryana State Co-operative Bank was regis- 
tered as a shareholder of the Corporation during this year., 
The contribution of various categories of shareholders 
to the share capital of the Corporation as on 30 June 
1970 was as follows : 




Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1709 


Rs. Lakhs 


Institution 

No. of 

Section 

No. of 

Value of 


Shareholders 

under which 
Shares held 

Shares 

Shares 

Reserve Bank of India 

.... 1 

5(2 m 

2,500 

250-00 



5(4) 

442 

44-20 

Central Land Development Banks 

18 




5(2)(b) 

1,356 

135 -60 

State Co-operative Banks 

.... 21 




Scheduled Commercial Banks 

.... 40 




The Life Insurance Corporation of India 

.... 1 

5(2)(c) 

702 

70-20 


Other insurance and investment companies 2 

Co-operative Insurance Societies 2 


A list of shareholders as on 30 June 1970 is given in 
Appendix Six. 

Accounts 


It will be observed from the statement of accounts 
given in Appendix Nine that after meeting all expenses 
and tax liabilities the Corporation made a net profit of 
Rs. 30.27 lakhs during 1969-70. The total net profit 
available for appropriation is Rs. 30,27,526.18, including 
undistributed profit of Rs. 228.84 carried forward from 
the previous year, which your Directors recommend to 
be dealt with as under : 


To writing off the balance of preliminary ex- 
penses in full 

To Reserve Fund 

Towards payment of dividend at 41 per cent 
per annum to shareholders 

Undistributed 


Rs. 


9,431 -71 
8,93,000 00 


21,25,000 -00 
94-47 


Board of Directors 

Nine meetings of the Board of Directors were held dur- 
ing the year. The Government of India nominated Shri 
T. P. Singh and Shri K. Ramamurthy on the Board of 
Directors of the Corporation in the place of Shri B. R. 
Patel and Shri D. N. Ghosh, respectively, in terms of 
section 10(c) of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation 
Act. Shri K. Madhava Das was appointed as the Manag- 
ing Director of the Corporation for a period of one year 
with effect from 16 May 1969. His term of office was 
extended up to 31 December 1971. 


The Directors place on record their deep appreciation 
of the valuable services rendered to the Corporation by 
Shri B. R. Patel and Shri D. N. Ghosh. 

On Behalf of the Directors 

P. N. DAMRY 


30,27, 526-18 

15 August 1970 


Chairman 


APPENDIX ONE 

Distribution of Schemes sanctioned by the Corporation up to 30 June 1970 According to Purpose* 


(Rs. in Crores) 


Purpose 


No. of 

Financial Assistance 

ARC’S 

Commit- 

ment 

State 
Govern- 
ment’s 
Bank’s and 
Party’s Com- 
mitments 

Loans 
drawn from 
and deben- 
tures subs- 
cribed to 
by the ARC 


Amount 

% to Total 

1 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Development of Minor Irrigation 


186 

156 -32 

60-23 

140 -59 

15-73 

35-16 

Development of Land 

. . 

39 

59-30 

22-85 

42-37 

16-93 

15-25 

Farm Mechanization with Tractors and Power Tillers 

9 

5-52 

2-13 

4-14 

1-38 

0-30 

Soil Conservation 


2 

2-38 

0-92 

2-14 

0-24 

1-95 

Development of Plantations and Orchards 

. . 

115 

22-24 

8-57 

17-60 

4-64 

3-57 

Poultry Farming 

. . 

6 

0-51 

0-20 

0-44 

0-07 

0-07 

Development of Fisheries 

. , 

8 

4-98 

1 -92 

3-50 

1 -48 

0-92 

Dairy Development 

. . 

2 

0-86 

0-33 

0-31 

0-55 

— 

Construction of Storage Facilities 


4 

7-40 

2-85 

3-80 

3-60 

1-87 



371 

259 -51 


214 -89 

44-62 

59-09 


♦After making adjustments for schemes withdrawn and rephased 





1710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


APPENDIX TWO 

Distribution of Schemes sanctioned by the Corporation up to 30 June 1970 
According to Agencies of Finance* 


Rs. Crores 


Type of Financing Agency 

No. of 

Financial Assistance 

ARC’S 

Commit- 

ment 

State 

Govern- 

ment’s/ 

Banks/ 

Party’s/ 

Commit- 

ments 

Loans 
drawn 
from and 
debentures 
subscribed 
to by the 
ARC 


Amount 

%to Total 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

Central Land Development Banks 

216 

224 -57 

86 -53 

193 -58 

30-99 

54-60 

State Co-operative Banks 

16 

14 -41 

5-56 

9-33 

5-08 

2-85 

Scheduled Commercial Banks . . 

94 

20-53 

7-91 

11 -98 

8-55 

1-64 


371 

259 -51 


214 -89 

44-62 

59 -09 


♦After making adjustments for schemes withdrawn and rephased. 


APPENDIX THREE 


Distribution of Schemes sanctioned by the Corporation up to 30 June 1970 

According to States* 


Rs. Crores 


State/Union Territory 

No. of Financial Assistance Corpo- 

Schemes — — ration's 

Amount % to Total Commit- 

ment 

State 

Govern- 

ment’s/ 

Bank’s/ 

Party’s 

Commit- 

ments 

Loans 
drawn from 
and deben- 
tures subs- 
cribed to 
by the ARC 

% to Total 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

Andhra Pradesh 

70 

38-39 

14 -78 

33 -24 

5-15 

14-16 

23 -96 

Assam 

8 

1 -13 

0-44 

1 -02 

0 -11 

0-73 

1-24 

Bihar 

5 

13-79 

5-30 

11 -56 

2-23 

0-79 

1 -34 

Delhi 

1 

0-09 

0-03 

0-09 

— 

0-06 

0-10 

Gujarat 

40 

23 -92 

9 -21 

20-59 

3-33 

3-38 

5-72 

Haryana 

11 

14-27 

5-49 

12-69 

1 -58 

5-66 

9-58 

Jammu & Kashmir 

3 

1 -85 

0-71 

1 -39 

0-46 

0-53 

0-90 

Kerala 

15 

5-84 

2-25 

4-49 

1-35 

0-52 

0-88 

Madhya Pradesh 

15 

15 -10 

5-89 

13-55 

1 -55 

0-80 

1-35 

Maharashtra 

18 

14-79 

5-70 

12-86 

1 -93 

5-38 

9-10 

Mysore . . 

72 

31 -30 

12-05 

25-86 

5-44 

4-27 

7-23 

Orissa 

8 

2-00 

0-77 

1 -55 

0-45 

0-22 

0-37 

Punjab 

27 

32-45 

12-50 

28-83 

3-62 

13-07 

22-12 

Rajasthan 

10 

7-56 

2-91 

6-71 

0-85 

0-84 

1 -42 

Tamil Nadu 

41 

24-60 

9-48 

20-70 

3-90 

4-88 

8-26 

Uttar Pradesh 

21 

30 -26 

11-66 

18-15 

12-11 

3-78 

6-40 

West Bengal 

6 

2-17 

0-84 

1 -61 

0-56 

0-02 

0-03 


371 

259 -51 


214 -89 

44-62 

59 -09 



♦After making adjustments for schemes withdrawn and rephased 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 111 1 


APPENDIX FOUR 


Amount of Debentures subscribed to and loans drawn from the Corporation during the year ended 30 June 1970 according 

to State, Agency of Finance and Purpose of Schemes 


Rs. Lakhs 


Name of the State 

Financing Agency 

Nature of Schemes 

Total 

amount of 
Debentures 
floated and 
loans raised 

Debentures State 

subscribed Govem- 
to and loans ment’s, 
drawn from Bank’s and 
the ARC Party’s 

contribution 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Andhra Pradesh 

. . Central Land Development 
Bank 

-do- 

Minor Irrigation 

479 -800 

431 -820 

47 -980 


Land Reclamation 

223 -500 

175 -441 

48 -059 




703 -300 

607-261 

96-039 

Assam 

. . Scheduled Commercial 

Bank 

Plantation/Horticulture 

4-000 

4-000 

— 

Bihar 

. . Central Land Develop- 
ment Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

68 -000 

61 -200 

6-800 

Delhi 

. . State Co-operative Bank 

Poultry 

6-420 

6-420 

— 

Gujarat 

. . Central Land Develop- 
ment Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

146 -000 

131 -400 

14-600 

Haryana 

. . -do- 

-do- 
-do- 

Minor Irrigation 

Plantation/Horticulture 

Tractor 

267 -500 

14- 700 

15- 000 

240 -750 
11 -025 
11 -250 

26 -750 
3-675 
3-750 




297 -200 

263 -025 

34 -175 

Jammu & Kashmir 

. . Central Land Develop- 
ment Bank 

Plantation/Horticulture 

27-000 

20 -250 

6-750 

Kerala 

-do- 

-do- 

Scheduled Commercial 

Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

Plantation/Horticulture 

Plantation/Horticulture 

10-000 
18-000 
12 -485 

9 000 
13-500 
12-485 

1 000 
4-500 




40-485 

34 -985 

5-500 

Madhya Pradesh 

. . Central Land Development 
Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

Land Reclamation 

50 -500 
4-500 

45 -450 
3-375 

5-050 

1-125 




55 000 

48 -825 

6-175 

Maharashtra 

. . Central Land Development 
Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

Soil Conservation 

341 -771 
45 -580 

307 -596 
41 -022 

34-174 

4-558 




387 -350 

348 -618 

38 -732 


Continued 



1712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


Rs. Lakhs 

l 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Mysore 

. . Central Land Develop- 

Minor Irrigation 

32 -700 

29 -430 

3-270 


ment Bank 

Land Reclamation 

74-900 

56 -175 

18 -725 



Plantation/Horticulture 

42-400 

31 -800 

10-600 


State Co-operative Bank 

Fisheries 

31 -150 

31 -150 

— 


Scheduled Commercial 

Power Tillers 

4-350 ‘ 

4-350 

_ 


Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

8-080 

8-080 

— 


-do- 

Plantation/Horticulture 

5-350 

5-350 

— 




198 -930 

166 -335 

32 -595 


Orissa 

. . . Central Land Development 

Bank 

Land Reclamation 
Plantation/Horticulture 

2-810 

18-000 

2-107 

16-200 

0-703 

1 -800 




20 -810 

18 -307 

2-503 

Punjab 

. . Central Land Development 
Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

Land Reclamation 

629 -760 
0-240 

566 -784 
0-180 

62 -976 
0-060 


State Co-operative Bank 

Godowns 

87-200 

87 -200 

— 




717-200 

654 -164 

63 -036 

Rajasthan 

. . Central Land Development 
Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

Land Reclamation 

83 -400 
2-200 

75 -060 

1 -650 

8-340 

0-550 




85-600 

76 -710 

8-890 

Tamil Nadu 

. . Central Land Development 
Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

Land Reclamation 

79 -750 
70-000 

71 -775 

52 -500 

7-975 

17-500 



Plantation/Horticulture 

15-400 

11 -550 

3-85 


Scheduled Commercial 

Bank 

Plantation/Horticulture 

22 -261 

22 -261 

— 


State Co-operative Bank 

Fisheries 

4-010 

4-010 

— 




191 -421 

162 -096 

29 -325 

Uttar Pradesh . . 

. . . Central Land Development 

Bank 

Minor Irrigation 

283 -970 

255 -573 

28 -397 

West Bengal 

. . Central Land Development 
Bank 

Plantation/Horticulture 

1 -300 

0-975 

0-325 



Grand Total 

3233 -986 

2860 -144 

373 -842 


Continued 


Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1713 


APPENDIX FIVE 


Distribution of 


Schemes under consideration of the Corporation as on 30 June 1970 
according to State and Purpose 


Rs. Lakhs 


State 

Purpose 

No. of 
Schemes 

Financial 

Assistance 

ARC’S 

contribution 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Andhra Pradesh 

. . Minor Irrigation 

Land Reclamation 

19 

4 

1261 -30 
516-80 

1135-17 
367 -10 


Tractor 

1 

750 -00 

562-50 



24 

2528 -10 

2064 -77 


Plantation/Horticulture 

3 

54-30 

27-15 

Assam 

Godowns 

1 

229 -10 

229 10 

Bihar 

Dairy 

2 

74-25 

74-25 


Minor Irrigation 

1 

168 -09 

151 -28 



4 

471 -44 

454 -63 


Delhi 

Gujarat 


Haryana 


Himachal Pradesh 


Kerala 


Madhya Pradesh . . 


Maharashtra 


Mysore 


Poultry 

1 

15-96 

7-98 

Minor Irrigation 

15 

843-00 

758 -70 

Tractor 

2 

165-00 

123 -75 


17 

1008 -00 

882 -45 

Godowns 

1 

19-41 

19-41 

Dairy 

1 

60-00 

45-00 

Minor Irrigation 

2 

298 -00 

268 -20 


4 

377 -41 

332-61 

Plantation/Horticulture 

1 

39-00 

29-25 

Land Reclamation 

1 

56-00 

42-00 

Soil Conservation 

1 

25 -00 

18-75 

Plantation/Horticulture 

6 

34-06 

22-86 


8 

115-06 

83 -61 

Godowns 

1 

193 -00 

144-75 

Dairy 

1 

159 -00 

159-00 

Minor Irrigation 

8 

807 -53 

726 -78 

Tractor 

1 

76 -68 

56 -76 


u 

1235 -21 

1087 -29 

Fisheries 

2 

29-98 

17-54 

Dairy 

1 

91-23 

55-33 

Plantation/Horticulture 

3 

135-00 

105 00 

Minor Irrigation 

24 

433 -25 

390 TO 

Poultry 

1 

2-00 

1 -00 

Land Reclamation 

1 

41 -00 

30-75 


32 

731 -96 

599-72 

Godowns 

2 

437 -42 

328 -07 

Plantation/Horticulture 

11 

135-64 

95 -40 

Minor Irrigation 

20 

1350 -42 

1185-05 

Land Reclamation 

1 

35 -02 

26-27 

Soil Conservation 

1 

110-88 

83-16 

Dairy 

1 

200 

1 -00 


36 2071-38 J 718 -95 


Continued 



1714 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part 111— Sec. 4 


Rs. Lakhs 

State 

Purpose 

No. of 
Schemes 

Financial ARC’S 

Assistance contribution 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Orissa 

. . Plantation/Horticulture 

1 

77-28 

56-16 


Minor Irrigation 

2 

23 -03 

20-73 



3 

100-31 

76-89 

Punjab 

. . Agro-Aviation 

1 

48-13 

48-13 


Minor Irrigation 

6 

1850 -00 

1665 -00 


Tractor 

1 

2128 -00 

1596 -00 



8 

4026-13 

3309-13 

Rajasthan 

. . Minor Irrigation 

3 

112-86 

101 -57 

Tamil Nadu 

. . Minor Irrigation 

26 

4725 -40 

4252 -42 


Tractor 

1 

1050 -00 

787 -50 


Plantation/Horticulture 

6 

9-70 

4-85 


Fisheries 

1 

2-04 

1 -02 


Poultry 

1 

11 -91 

9-89 


Dairy 

1 

29-25 

21 -94 


Sheep Breeding 

13 

20-15 

20-15 



49 

5848 -45 

5097 -77 

Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu 

. . . . Fisheries 

1 

184-10 

135-76 

Uttar Pradesh 

. . Minor Irrigation 

18 

2831 -04 

2547 -94 


Plantation/Horticulture 

1 

2-80 

1-40 



19 

2833 -84 

2549 -34 

West Bengal 

. . . . Poultry 

1 

2-08 

1 -04 


Grand Total 

225 

21755 -59 

18559 -91 


APPENDIX SIX 

List of share holders as on 30 June 1970 
Central Land Development Banes 

1. The Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Central Land Mortgage 

Bank Limited. 

2. The Assam Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 

3. The Bihar State Co-operative Mortgage Bank Limited 

4. The Bombay State Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 

5. The Gujarat State Co-operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 

6. Haryana State Co-opertative Land Mortgage Bank Limited 

7. The Jammu and Kashmir Co-operative Central Land 

Development Bank Limited 

8. Kerala Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank Limited 


9. The Madhya Pradesh State Co-operative Land Develop- 
ment Bank Limited 

10. The Mysore State Co-operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 

11. The Orissa State Co-operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 

12. The Pondicherry State Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 

13. The Punjab State Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 

14. The Rajasthan Central Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank 

Limited 

15. The Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Land Development 

Bank Limited 

16. Tripura Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank Limited 

17. Uttar Pradesh State Co-operative Land Development Bank 

Limited 

18. The West Bengal Central Co-operative Land Mortgage 

Bank Limited. 



f*ART III — Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 


1715 


STATE CO-OPERATIVE BANKS 


19. The Andhra Pradesh State Co-operative Bank Limited 

20. The Assam Co-operative Apex Bank Limited 

21. The Bihar State Co-operative Bank Limited 

22. The Delhi State Co-operative Bank Limited 

23. The Gujarat State Co-operative Bank Limited 

24. The Haryana State Co-operative Bank Limited 

25. The Himachal Pradesh State Co-operative Bank Limited 

26. The Jammu and Kashmir State Co-operative Bank Limited 

27. The Kerala State Co-operative Bank Limited 

28. The Madhya Pradesh State Co-operative Bank Limited 

29. The Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank Limited 

30. The Manipur State Co-operative Bank Limited 

31. The Mysore State Co-operative Apex Bank Limited 

32. The Orissa State Co-operative Bank Limited 

33. The Pondicherry State Co-operative Bank Limited 

34. The Punjab State Co-operative Bank Limited 

35. The Rajasthan State Co-operative Bank Limited 

36. The Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Bank Limited 

37. Tripura State Co-operative Bank Limited 

38. Uttar Pradesh Co-operative Bank Limited 

39. West Bengal State Co-operative Bank Limited 

SCHEDULED BANKS 

40. Allahabad Bank 

41. The Andhra Bank Limited 

42. Bank of Baroda 

43. The Bank of lehar Limited 

44. Bank of India 

45. Bank of Madura Limited 

46. Bank of Maharashtra 

47. The Benares State Bank Limited 

48. Canara Bank 

49. The Canara Banking Corporation Limited 

50. Central Bank of India 

51. The Chartered Bank 


52. Dena Bank 

53. The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 

54. Indian Bank 

55. Indian Overseas Bank 

56. The Karnataka Bank Limited 

57. The Kumbakonam City Union Bank Limited 

58. Mercantile Bank Limited 

59. National and Grindlays Bank Limited 

60. The Nedungadi Bank Limited 

61. Punjab National Bank 

62. The Ratnakar Bank Limited 

63. The Sangli Bank Limited 

64. State Bank of Hyderabad 

65. State Bank of India 

66. State Bank of Indore 

67. State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur 

68. State Bank of Mysore 

69. State Bank of Patiala 

70. State Bank of Saurashtra 

71. State Bank of Travancore 

72. The South Indian Bank Limited 

73. Syndicate Bank 

74. Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Limited 

75. Union Bank of India 

76. United Bank of India 

77. United Commercial Bank 

78. The Vijaya Bank Limited 

79. The Vysya Bank Limited 

OTHER SHAREHOLDERS 

80. Reserve Bank of India 

81. Life Insurance Corporation of India 

82. The New India Assurance Company Limited 

83. The Saraswati Insurance Company Limited 

84. The Co-operative Fire and General Insurance Society 

Limited 

85. Co-operative General Insurance Society Limited 


APPENDIX SEVEN 
REPORT OF THE AUDITORS 

We have examined the annexed Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation as at 30 June 1970, and also the annexed 
Profit and Loss Account of the Corporation for the year ended upon that date, and report that 

1 We have obtained all the information and explanations which we have required and have found them to be satisfactory. 

2 In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and as shown by the books 
of the Corporation, the Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet containing all necessary particulars and properly 
drawn-up in accordance with the Act and the General Regulations of the Corporation, so as to exhibit a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Corporation. 


K. S. AIYAR & CO. 

11 August 1970 Charter'd Accountants 

49 Apollo Street, Bombay 
299GI/70— 4 



1716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Slc.-*I 


APPENDIX 
BALANCE SHEET 





As at 30-6-1969 

LIABILITIES 

Rs. P 

Rs P 

Rs P 

1. CAPITAL 

Authorised 

Rs. P 



25,000 shares of Rs. 10,000 each . . 


25,00,00,000 -00 

25,00,00,000 -00 

Issued, Subscribed and Paid up 

5,000 shares of Rs. 10,000 each paid up 


5,00,00,000 -00 

5,00,00,000 -00 

2. RESERVED AND SURPLUS 

Reserve Fund 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 

Add : Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 

16,000 00 

8,93,000 -00 


5,000 -00 
11,000-00 

Profit and Loss Account 

Profit brought forward . . 

Profit for the year . . 

9,09,000 -00 

228 -84 

30,27,297 -34 


16,000-00 

21,38,115 -84 

Lets : Preliminary expenses written off 

30,27,526 18 

9,431 -71 


21,38,115-84 
1,887 -00 

Less: Transferred to Reserve Fund 

30,18,094 47 

8,93,000 00 


21,36,228 -84 
11,000-00 

Transferred to Provision for Dividend 

21,25.094 -47 

21,25.000-00 


21,25,228-84 

21,25,000-00 


94 -47 


228 -84 



9,09,094 -47 


Carried Forward 

5,09,09,094 -47 

5,00,16,228-84 

Brought Forward 

5,09,09,094 -47 

5,00.16,228 -84 

3. SPECIAL DEPOSIT 


74,00,043 -10 

61,48,843-10 

4. PAYMENT BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT IN RESPECT 

OF GUARANTEED DIVIDEND (Section 6 of the Act) . . 

14,13,896 -05 

14,13,896-05 

5. BONDS & DEBENTURES (5$% ARC Bonds 1982) 

6. LOANS FROM THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

.. 

10,93,77,000 00 

— 

(a) Under Section 19 of the Act 

5,00,00,000 -00 


5,00,00,000 -00 

( b ) Other loans 

39,75,00,000-00 


20,75,00,000 -00 



44,75,00,000 -00 

35,75,00,000 -00 


7. OTHER BORROWINGS 

(a) From the Reserve Bank of India — 

(b) From Others : 

(i) In india — _ 

(ii) Outside India .... — 

8. FIXED DEPOSITS 

(a) From Central or State Government — _ 

( b ) Others . . .... — 

9. PROVISION FOR DIVIDENDS 

Amount transferred from Profit and Loss Account . . . . 21,25,000 00 21,25,000 -00 

Add: Payment to be made by Central Government in pursuance 
of Section 6 read with Section 28 of the Act (vide Divi- 
dend Deficit Account as per contra) — __ 

21,25,000 00 21,25,000 '00 

61.87,25,033 ’62 31,72,03,967-99 


Carried Forward 


Part III— Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 1717 


EIGHT 

AS AT 30 JUNE 1970 


ASSETS 

1. Cash 

(a) In hand 

(b) With Reserve Bank of India . . 

(c) With Others : 

(i) In India 

(ii) Outside India 

Rs. P. 

388 -64 
25,796 -35 

9,418-15 

Rs. P. 

As at 30-6-1969 

Rs. P. 

799 -65 
49,990 -58 

6,994 -55 



35,603 -14 

57,784 -78 

2. LOANS 

( a ) By way of refinance 

(b) Others 

Lew: Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts 

4,29,26,693 00 


2,54,94,645 00 



4,29,26,693 00 

2,54,94,645 -00 

3. DEBENTURES 


54,60,37,600 -00 

27,85,53,750 -00 

4. INVESTMENT IN CENTRAL GOVERNMENT SECURITIES 
(At Cost) 


2,49,85,544 -50 

51,45,041 -00 


(Face Value Rs. 2,46,16,300 -00) 
(Market Value Rs. 2,49,85,544-50) 


INTEREST ACCRUED ON INVESTMENTS . . 

.. 


6,24,296 -72 

1,29,192-04 

Carried Forward 


61,46,09,737-36 

30,93,80,412 -82 

OTHER ASSETS 





(a) Furniture, Fixture and fittings, office equip- 





ments etc. (Cost upto 30-6-1969) 

1,25,596 -89 



1,38,041 -19 

AM: Additions during the year 

52,924 -36 



18,610-65 


1,78,521 -25 



1,56,651 -84 

Less: Items sold/adjusted 

217 -20 



31,054 -95 


1,78,304-05 



1,25,596 -89 

Less: Depreciation to date 

48,964 -47 



32,369 -82 



1,29,339 -58 


93,227-07 

(b) Deposits with Government Departments and 





other institutions . . 


36,841 -66 


28,379 -16 

(e) Sundry Advances 


1,31,080 -41 


46,49,361 -48 

(d) Interest accrued on debentures 


1,39,49,388 -96 


69,46,150 -58 

(e) Interest accrued on loans by way of refinance 


10,43,059 -17 


3,11,096-42 

(/) Preliminary expenses 

9,431 -71 



11,318-71 

Less: Written off during the year . . 

9,431 -71 



1,887-00 



Nil 


9,431.71 

(g) Dividend Deficit Account 


14,13,896-05 


14,13,896-05 




1,67,03,605-83 

1,34,51,542-47 


Carried Forward 


63,13,13,343-19 


32,28,31,955 -29 




1718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III — Sec. 4 


BALANCE SHEE T 


LIABILITIES 

10. PROVISION FOR TAXATION .. 


Brought Forward 


Rs. P. 

61,87,25,033 -62 
20,82,505 '62 


As at 30-6-1969 
Rs. P. 

31,72,03,967-99 
20,25,514-62 


11. OTHER LIABILITIES 

Sundry Creditors .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,41,163 43 3.67,883 -63 

Interest accrued but not due on : 

(a) Loans from Central Government 67,89,931 -52 32,34,589 -05 

(b) 5* % Agricultural Refinance Corporation Bonds 1982 .. 30,74,709-00 — 

Contingent Liabilities 

(o') On account of guarantee given against deferred payments 
in connexion with purchase of capital goods from outside 

India - - — 

(b) Other Items .... — — - 


Total 


63,13,13,343-19 32,28,31,955-29 


S. S. BASU As per our Report of even dale attached* 

Chief Accountant K. S. A1YAR & CO. 

Bombay 11 August, 1970 Charts) eel Accountants 

*See Appendix Seven 


APPENDIX 


PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 



Previous Year 


Rs. P 

Rs. P 

1 . Interest paid . . . . 

1,70,66,078 -19 

44,18,972-61 

2. Salaries and Allowances 

18,31,959-14 

1 2,96,026 -81 

3. Contribution to Staff Provident, Pension and other Funds 

2,04,613-79 

1,37,358 -73 

4. Directors’ and Committee Members’ Fees 

5. Travelling and other allowances in connexion with Directors’ and Committee Mem- 
bers’ Meetings . . 

2,400 CO 

1,900 -00 

15,758 -90 

12,977 -62 

6. Rent, Rates, Insurance, Lighting etc 

2,05,474 -62 

1,30,647-14 

7. Travelling Expenses 

1,99,146-87 

1,12,773-76 

8. Printing and Stationery 

79,941 -66 

39,524 -88 

9., Postage, Telegrams and Telephones 

39,508 -93 

21,635 -43 

10. Repairs to Property 

723 -44 

1,947-15 

11. Auditors’ Fees 

5,000 -00 

5,000 00 

12. Legal Charges 

6.451 -00 

16,952 -00 

13. Miscellaneous expenses 

8,76,688 -76 

84,107 -70 

14. Depreciation 

16,716-09 

11,075-01 

15- Provision for Taxation 

37,00,000 -00 

26,13,300 -00 

16. Net Profit carried to Balace Sheet 

30,27,297 -34 

21,38,115-84 

Total 

2,72,77,758 -73 

1,10,42,314-68 


S. S. BASU 

As per our Report of even date attached* 

Chief Accountant 

K. S. AIYAR & CO. 


Bombay 1 1 August 1970 Chartered Accountants 

*See Appendix Seven 



Part III— Sec. 4j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1719 

AS AT 30 JUNE 1970 

As at 30-6-1969 

ASSETS Rs. P Rs. P. 

Brought Forward 63,13,13,343 -19 32,28,31,955 -29 



Total 

63,13,13,343 -19 

32,28,31,955 -29 

New Delhi 6 August 1970 

NINE 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 1970 


P. N. DAMRY 

K. MADHAVA DAS 

T. P. SINGH 1 

M. R. PATEL 1 

N. A. KALYANI f 

C. D. DATEY j 

Chairman 

Managing Director 

Directors 




Previous year 



Rs. P. Rs. P. 

Rs. p. 

1. Interest Received 




(a) On loans and debentures 

. . 

2,40,90,030-51 

1,02,02,032 -24 

(6) On Investments (Tax deducted at source Rs. 13,16,899 -00) 

30,34,715 -16 

8,38,683 -40 



2,71,24,745 -67 

O 

O 

2. Discount Commission etc. 





3. Other Items 




(a) Share Transfer Fees 


4-00 

4-00 

( b ) Miscellaneous receipts 


29-60 

1,595 -04 

(c) Commitment charges . . 


1,52,979 -46 




1,53,013 -06 

1 , 599 -04 


Total 

2,72,77,758 -73 

1,10,42,314 -68 


P. N. DAMRY Chairman 

K. MADHAVA DAS Managing Director 
T. P. SINGH 1 

M. R. PATEL I 

N. A. KALYAN1 f 

C. D . DATEY J 


New Delhi 6 August 1970 



1720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


AUDITOR'S 

We have audited the attached Balance Sheet of the Unit Trust of India as at 30th June, 1970 and the Revenue Account for 
Subject to and read with the Notes thereon, we report that: — 

(1) the Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet containing all the necessary particulars and is properly drawn up in accor- 
ledge and according to the information and explanations given to us, a true and fair veiw of the state of affairs of the Trust; 

(2) we have received all the information and explanations we have required and found them to be satisfactory. 


Bombay. 14 tit August, 1970. 


UNIT TRUST 

(Established under the Unit Trust of India Act, 
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 


LIABILITIES 


Amount 


As at 30 th 
June, 1969 
Rupees 

CAPITAL : 

Initial Capital : 

5,00,00,000 1,000 certificates of Rs. 50,000 each. 

Unit Capital : 

56.65.20.800 7,74,47,724 units of Rs. 10/- 

61.65.20.800 

RESERVES AND SURPLUS : 

Unit Premium Reserve : 

3,06,706 Balance as per last Balance Sheet 

Amount allocated out of premium 
recovered on sale as adjusted by 
4,99,738 premium paid on repurchases . . 

8,06,444 


Other Reserves : 


General Reserve : 


1,83,995 

1,04,578 
2,88,573 
~ 10,95,017 
61,65,20,800 


Initial Capital : 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 

Transfer from Initial Capital 
Appropriation Account 


C/F 


Rupees Rupees Rupees 


5,00,00,000 

77,44,77,240 

82,44,77,240 


8,06,444 

28.16,621 

32,23,065 


2,88,573 


54.626 

3,43,199 

39.66.264 

82,44,77,240 


Carried forward . . 




PaSt III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1721 


REPORT 

the year ended on that date annexed thereto. 

dance with the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 and the Regulations framed thereunder so as to exhibit, to the best cf our know- 


K. S. AIYAR & Co,. 
Chartered Acconutatns 

M. P. CHITALE & Co.. 
Chartered Accountants 


OF INDIA 

1963 — Regulation 39A Form 1 Schedule B) 

30TH JUNE, 1970 (Figures are shown to the nearest rupee) 



ASSETS 



Amount 


As at 30/7i 

June, 1969 

Rupees 

INVESTMENTS : (At cost) 

(See Notes 1, 3, & 4) 


Rupees 

Rupees 

Rnpees 


Securities of Central and State 

Governments : 





17,86,500 

(i) Central Government Treasury 

Bills 

, , f , 

6,94,750 



1,31,96,625 

(ii) Other Trustee Securities 

.. 

2,96,03,875 



1,49,83,125 




3,02,98,625 


26,85,38,620 

9,33,55,287 

23,99,56,500 

Debentures and Bonds 

Preference shares 

Equity shares 

Others 

.. 


37,18,47,454 

11,91,88,126 

31,54,72,197 


61,68,33,532 

DEPOSITS : 




83,68,05,402 

— 

With Scheduled Banks 



3,06,00,000 


3,15,00,000 

With Others Institution 

. . 


60,00,000 


3,15,00,000 

OTHER CURRENT ASSETS : 




3,66,00,000 

24,11,023 

Balance with Banks and on hand . . 



16,71,470 


1,58,570 

Sundry Debtors 



1,65,203 


9,35,727 

Contract for sale investments 



— 


96,88,998 

Accrued Income 



1,24,49,727 


60,03.926 

Others (advances and deposits) . . 



85,30,498 


1,91,98,244 





2,28,16,898 

66,75,31,776 

Carried forward 

. . 



89,62,23,300 



1722 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) [Part III— Six': 4 

UNIT TRUST 
(Established under the Unit Trust of India Act. 

BALANCE SHEET AS AT 



LIABILITIES 

Amount 


As at 30;/i 

June , 1969 
Rupees 


Rupees Rupees 

Rupees 

61,65,20,800 

Broutht forward 


82,44,77,240 

10,95,017 

B/F. 




Unit Capital : 



13,96,953 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 

25,81,869 


11,84,916 

Transfer from Unit Capital Appropri- 
ation Account 

8,46,142 


25,81.869 


34,28,011 


7,65,067 

Initial Capital Appropriation Account . . 

10,29,066 


24,17,222 

Unit Capital Appropriation Account 

19,24,174 


68,59,175 

LOANS : 


1,03,47,515 


F rom Reserve Bank of India : 



— 

(i) Secured against Trustee Securi- 
ties 

— 



(ii) Secured against Bonds issued by 
the Trust and guaranteed by the 

Central Government 




From Others 


62,33.79,975 Carried forward 83,48,24,755 


CURRENT LIABILITIES AND 
PROVISIONS : 


3,28,61 1 

Sundry Creditors (See Note 5) 

7,37,884 

— 

Interest on Loans . . . . 

— 

16,03,920 

Contracts for purchase of investments 

23,51,343 

11,26,649 

Unclaimed Distributed Income 

13,41,078 

17,50,000 

Income Distribution on Initial Capital 

20,00,000 

4,02,22,977 

4,50,32,157 

Income Distribution on Unit Capital 

5,57,62,361 


66,84,12,132 


Total 


89,70,17,421 



Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1723 


OF INDIA 

1963 — Regulation 39A Form I Schedule B) 

30TH JUNE, 1970 (Figures are shown to the nearest rupee) 


ASSETS 


Amount 


As at 30 th 

June , 1969 






Rupees 



Rupees 

Rupees 

Rupees 

66,75,31,776 

Brought forward 

* • * • 



89,62,23,300 


FIXED ASSETS : 





— 

Land (At cost) 

Building (At cost) 

. . 

— 



— 

Less : Depreciation to date 


— 

— 



Furniture and Fixtures : (At cost) 



— 


3,45,011 

26,243 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
Additions during the year 



3,71,099 

31,094 



3,71,254 

155 

Deductions during the year 

> • • • • 

4,02,194 



3,71,099 

1,09,138 

Less : Depreciation to-date 

• • * • 

4,02,194 

1,37,680 



2,61,961 

Office Equipment : (At cost) 



2,64,514 


10,69,311 

7,535 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
Additions during the year 

, , 

10,76,634 

5,881 



10,76,846 

212 

Deduction during the year 

» • • • e 

10,82,515 



10,76,634 

4,81,825 

Less : Depreciation to-date 

• • • • 

10,82,515 

5,71,824 



5,94,749 




5,10,691 


8,56,710 

C/F 



7,75,205 


66,75,31,776 

Carried forward 

.. .. 



89,62,23,300 


Motor Vehicles : (At cost) 





52,950 

Balance as per last Balance Sheet 



52,850 



— 

Additions during the year 

. . 

— 



52,850 



52,850 



29,204 

Less : Depreciation to-date 



33,934 



23,646 



18,916 



— 

Others 

.. 


— 


8,80,356 





7,94,121 

66,84,12,132 



Total 


89,70,17, 21 


299GI/70— 5 


See Notes Annexed. 




1724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1982) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


UNIT TRUST 

(Established under the Unit Trust of India Act, 
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 


LIABILITIES 


Amount 


As at 30th 
June, 1969 

Rupees 


Contingent Liabilities : 

(i) Claims against the Trust not acknowledged as debts Sales tax claimed on importation 

18,822 charges of Tabulating machines under dispute) 

(ii) Uncalled liability in respect of partly paid shares held as investments (includes Rs. 
1,19,80,125 in respect of banks nationalised on t9th July, 1969 — Previous year 

1,28,58,023 Rs. 1,13,43,925) 


Capital Commitment : 

Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on Capital Account 


Rupees 


1,37,47,790 


As per our report attached, 


Bombay, 14th August, 1970. 


K. S. Aieyr & Co. 

M.P. Chitale & Co. 
Chartered Accountants. 


UNIT TRUST OF INDIA 


Notes annexed to and forming part of the Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1970. 


30th June, 1969 
Rupees 


30th June, 1970 
Rupees 


61,29,15,805 

66,78,32,439 


39,17,727 


(a) Quoted Investments including Treasury Bills 
Cost 

Aggregate market value 


(6) Unquoted Investments 

Cost 

After taking the market value of investments, the net value of the assets of the Trust as on 30th 
June, 1970 amounted to Rs. 91,54,81,962 (As on 30th June 1969 Rs. 67,82,96,608). 

Investmrents include contracts for purchase of— 


Debentures 
Preference shares 
Equity shares 


4,950 

3,18,716 

20,27,677 


Investments in ‘reference and equity shares (cost Rs. 14,70,139 — 30 th June, 1969 — Rs. 5,12,943) 
could not be verified by the Auditors as the relevant confirmations etc. from the bank were yet 
to be received. 

Sundry Creditors include a sum of Rs. 70,254 ( previous year — Rs. 57,320) on account of the 
Unit Trust of India Employees’ Provident Fund, which stands invested in Trustee securities. 

No provision has been made in the accounts as on the 30th June, 1970 for the future liability of 
the Trust towards Gratuity payable to the Reserve Bank of India in respect of the staff placed on 
duty with the Trust in accordance with the Bank’s rules, as the amount involved is not ascertain- 
able. 


83,17,39,399 

91,23,96,606 


50,67,003 





Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2 , 1892) 


1725 


OF INDIA 

1963— Regulation 39 A Form I Schedule B) 
30TH JUNE, 1970. 



R. S. Bhatt 

V. G. Pendharkar 
N. M. Wagle 
H.T. Parekh 
D. P. Goenka 
Rameshwar Thakur , 
T. R. Varadachary 
Sita Ram Mohindroo 
V.H. Vora 

C. P. Biswas 

Chief Accountant S. D. Deshmukh 


UNIT TRUST OF INDIA 


7. Figures for the previous year have been re-grouped where considered necessary. 

8. As regards the Trust’s publicity, please see paragraph 15 of the Trustees’ Report. 



R. S. Bhatt Chairman 

V. G. Pendharkar 

N. M. Wagle 

H. T. Parekh 

D. P. Goenka, J 

Rameshwar Thakur f Trustees 

T. R. Varadachary 

Sita Ram Mohindroo 

V. H. Vora 

C. P. Biswas 

Chief Accountant S. DJDeshmukh Executi \e ^Trustee 


Bombay, 14th August, 1970. 





1726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


UNIT TRUST 
(Regulation 39A 
REVENUE ACCOUNT FOR THR YEAR 


Expenditure Amount 


Previous Year 

Rupees Rupees 

33,99,031 Salaries, Allowance, Contributions to Provident Fund and Gratuity 36,62,354 

4,400 Sitting Fees of Trustees 4,950 

22,929 Travelling and other allowances of Trustees (for attending Board and Committee Meelings) .. .. 21,354 

9,81,522 Office Expenses (Including Publicity Expenses) 12,28,223 

— Interest on Borrowings — 

12,35,370 Commission, Brokerage and Bank Charges 16,71,602 

20,000 Auditors’ Fees 20,000 

1,39,243 Depreciation .. .. ' 1,23,211 

58,02,495 67,31,694 

21,16,665 Less : Management Expenses recovered from sale of units 22,83,405 

36,85,830 Total expenditure 44,48,289 

4,45,74,993 Income for the year 5,84,34,080 


4,82,60,823 Total 6,28,82,369 


92,478 Note : Remuneration and allowances of Chairman and Executive Trustee in eluded in the above 

are Rs. 89,999 


ALLOCATION OF INCOME AND EXPENDITURE BETWEEN INITIAL CAPITAL AND 


Previous Year 

Unit Capital 

Initial Capital 

Total 

Rupees 

Rupees 

Rupees 


4,43,46,857 

139,13,966 

4,82,60,823 

Income as above 


. 



Less: Interest on 




Borrowings 

4,43,46,857 

39,13,966 

4,82,60,823 


22,17,343 

14,68,487 

36,85,830 

Less : Total Ex- 

penditure as 


17 


above 

4,21,29,514 

24,45,479 

4,45,74,993 


Transferred to 

Transferred to 



Unit Capital 

Initial Capital 



Appropriation 

Appropriation 



Account. 

Account. 




Tart III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


OF INDIA 

Form 2 Schedule B) 

ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1970 


Figures are shown to the nearest rupee) 



Previous Year 
Rupees 

4,30,1 1,740 Dividend and Inerest 


Rupees 

5,70,01,397 


Rupees 


Add: Profit on sale and redemption of Investments 
12,89,495 (net) 


4,43,01,235 


9,00,768 


5,79,02,165 


16,75,752 Commission and brokerage* 


17,66,396 


5,14,016 Other Income 


Amount recov, 
1 7,69,820 repurchase of 


31,40,693 


4,82,60,823 


Total 


6,28,82,369 


♦Represents underwriting commission and brokerage in respect of shares and debentures subscribed for by the Trust. 


UNIT CAPITAL UNDER SECTIONS 24 AND 25 OF THE UNIT TRUST OF INDIA ACT, 1963 


Total 

Rupees 

Initial .Capital 

Rupees 

Unit Capital 

Rupees 

6,28,82,369 

38,13,469 

5,90,68,900 

6,28,82,369 

38,13,469 

5,90,68,900 

44,48,289 

14,94,844 

29,53,445 

5,84,34,080 

23,18,625 

5,61,15,455 


Transferred to 
Initial Capital 
Appropriation 
Account. 


Transferred to 
Unit Capital 
Appropriation 
Account. 








i728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTlKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


UNIT TRUST 
(Regulation 39 A 
REVENUE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR 

Previous Year Expenditure Amount 


INITIAL CAPITAL 

Rupees Rupees 

17,50,000 Income Distribution @4% (1968-69 — 3£%) 20,00,000 

Transfer to General Reserve being proportionate profit on sale and 
1,04,578 redemption of securities 54,626 

7,65,067 Balance carried to Balance Sheet ' . . 10,29,066 

26,19,645 Total . . . . 30,83,692 


UNIT CAPITAL 

Rupees Rupees 

7,02,22,977 Income Distribution @ 7 -2% (1968-69— 7 -1 %) 5,57,62,361 

(Transfer , Ito , General Reserve being proportionate profit on sale and 
11,94,916 redemption of securities 8,46,142 

24,17,222 Balance carried to Balance Sheet 19,24,174 

4,38,25,115 Total .. .. 5,85,32,677 


As per report attached to the Balance Sheet. 

K. S. Aiyar & Co. 
M. P. Chitale & Co. 

Bombay, Hth August, 1970 Chartered Accoim i 




Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1729 


OF INDIA 

Form 2 Schedule B). 

ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1970 

(Figures are shown to the nearest rupee) 


Previous Year 


Income 


Amount 


APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT 


Rupees Rupees 

1,74,166 Balance brought forward from previous lyear 7,65,067 

t 

24,45,479 Net Income allocated (as (above 23,18,625 


26,19,645 


Total 30,83,692 


APPROPRIATION ACCOUNT 


Rupees 


Rupees 


16,95,601 Balance brought forward from previous year 
4,21,29,514 Net Income allocated' as above 


24,17,222 

5,61,15,455 


4,38,25,115 


Total „ 5,85,32,677 


R. S. Bhatt 


Chairman 


V. G. Pendharkar 
N. M. Wagle 
H. T. Parekh 
D. P. Goenka i 

Rameshwar Thakur r 
T. R. Varadachary 
Sita Ram Mohindroo 
V. H. Vora 


Trustees 


'C.P. Biswas 
Chief Accountant 


S. D. Deshmukh 


J 

Executive Trustee 







1730 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1 892) [Part III— Sec. 4 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 
Central Board of Film Censors 


PARTI 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the Week ending 21th September 1969 
Instructions : B — Bombay; C — Calcutta; M — Madras. ‘U’ — Certified for unrestricted public exhibition. 

‘A’ — Certified for public exhibition restricted to adults. 
i.e. persons who have completed their 1 8th yeai. 


Application Name of the film with Length of the Name of the person Name of the person Nature of 

No. language and country film in metres or Co. who has appli- or Co. who has pro- certificate 

of origin. & No. of Reels ed for certification with duced the film with granted, 

address. address. No. & 

Date of 
issue/and 
or refused. 


1 2 3 4 5 6 


Remarks 


7 


BOMBA Y 


B/57770 “Improving Perfor- 
mance Through 
Individual Manager 
Development” (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) (New 
York) 


320 -04(1) Ama Educational Pvt. 

Ltd., Canada Bldg., 
Hornby Road, Dr. 
D. N. Rd., Bombay-4. 


U 

American Manage- 58362 
ment Association, — - — — 
(New York) 22-9-69 


B/57771 

“Standards of Perfor- 
mance” (English) 

(16 mm) (New York) 

340-16(1) 

Do. 


Do. 

58363 

22-9-69 

B/57772 

“Evaluation for Deve- 
lopment” (English) 

(16 mm) (New York) 

320-04(1) 

Do. 


Do. 

U 

58364 

22-9-69 

B/57365 

"Naya Raj Roop” 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India) 

24-38(1) 

Chopra Films, 
villa, 15th 
Bombay-54- 

Anand Chopra 
Road, bay-54. 

Films, Bom- 

U 

58365 

22-9-69 

B/57364 

“Naya Roop Shrin- 
gar” (Col.) (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

24 -38(1) 

Do. 


Do. 

u 

58366 

22-9-69 

B/57363 

“Naya Lux” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) (In- 
dia) 

24-38(1) 

Do. 


Do. 

U 

58367 

22-9-69 

B/57521 

“Antar Rashtriya 

Shaan” (Col.) (Hin- 
di) (35 mm) (India) 

24 -38(1) 

Do. 


Do. 

U 

58368 

22-9-69 

B/57784-90 

“Men of Action” 
(Col.) (35 mm) (In- 
dia). 

29-87(1) 

Trio Films, Jyoti Stu- Trio 
dios, Kennedy Bridge, 7. 

Bombay-7. 

Films, Bombay- 

U 

58369 

22-9-69 


Valid for Eng. Hin- 
di, Bengali, Mar- 
athi, Tamil, Guja- 
rathi, Telugu ver- 
sions. 


B/57699 “Eppodum Tripthi” 29-87(1) Do. 

(Col.) (35 mm) (India) 


U 

Do. 58370 Valid for Tamil, 

— — Telugu, Kannada & 

22-9-69 Malayalam ver- 
sions. 


B/57703 “Hong Kong Hori- 
zons” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) (Hong 
Kong) 


U 

313-33(1) E.E. James, for Caltax John Durst, (Hong 58371. 

(I) Ltd., Pushpa Vihar Kong) — — — ■ 

-2, Flat 18, 4th Floor, 22-9-69 

Colaba, Bombay-5. 


B/56913 “Weed-End Fishing” 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm) (Australia). 


B/57381 


Trailer of “The Swan 
Lake” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (70 mm) (U.S. 
S.R.) 


102(1) Australian High Com- The Australian Com- 
mission, New Delhi. monwealth Film 
Unit, (Australia). 

120(1) Sovexportfilm, 163, Lenfilm Studios, (U. 
Lower Colaba Rd., S.S.R.) 

Bombay-5. 


U 

58372 


22-9-69 

U 

58373 


22-9-69 



Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1731 




— 





1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


B/57380 


B/57448 


“Old Sayings” (An 
Old Saying) (Cart- 
oon) (Col.) (35 mm) 
(U.S.S.R.). 

199(1) 

Sovexportfilm 163 
Lower Colaba Rd 
Bombay-5 

Sayuzmultfilm Studios, 
(U.S.S.R.) 

Trailer of “The Great 
Bank Robbery” (Pan- 
avision) (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) (U.S. A.) 

85 -63(1) 

Warner Bros. Seven 
Arts (F.E.) Inc., Eros 
Bldg., Churchgate, 
Bombay. 

Malcoim Stuart, (U. 
S.A.) 

Endorsement 




Original length : 

92 -66 m. 



Delete the shots of nude woman on the horse.- — 7 -03 m. 



Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be :- — 85 '63 m. 


U 

58374 English, with Rus- 

sian titles. 

22-9-69 

U 

58375 With triangle mark. 


22-9-69 


B/57760 

“Dance of Love” (16 
mm) (U.S.A.). 

111-55(1) 

United State Informat- 
ion Service,, Fazal 
House, Marine Lin- 
es, Bombay. 

Peter Weiner, 1965 (U. 
S.A.)’ 

B/57758 

“Now that The Buf- 
falo’s Gone” (Col.) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

71 -63(1) 

Do. 

Burton C. Gershfield, 
(U.S.A.). 

B/57757 

“Texture of Decay” 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

125 -88(1) 

Do. 

Robeit Vickrey 1957, 
(U.S.A.). 

B/57762 

“Pianissimo” (Col.) 
(16 mm) (U.S. A.). 

65 -23(1) 

Do. 

Carmen D’avino, 1964 
(U.S.A.). 

B/ 57 807 -9 

“Fashioned In Fine 
Leathers” (Col.) (35 
mm) (India). 

60 -96(1) 

Candida Films, 68, 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 

Candida Films, Bom- 
bay-34. 

B/57810-11 

“Styles & Trends For 
Men” (Col.) (35 
mm) (India). 

60 -96(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/57509 

“Once Upon A Time 

In The West” (Tech- 
niscope) (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) (U.S. A.) 

Endorsement 

3670 -00(16) Paramount Films of 
India Ltd., Hague 
Bldg., Sprott Rd., 
Bombay, 

Fulvio Marsella, (U. 
S.A.). 


U 

58376 No dialogue or com- 
mentary. 

22-9-69 

U 

58377 No dialogue or com- 

— mentary. 

22-9-69 

U 

58378 No dialogue or 
commentary. 

22-9-69 

U 

58379 No dialogue or 
commentary. 

22- 9-69 

U 

58380 Valid for Bengali, 
Assamese & Oriya 

23- 9-69 versions. 

U 

58381 Valid for English, 

& Hindi versions. 

23-9-69 

U 

58382 With triangle mark. 


24-9-69 


Original length : 3712 -80 m. 

Reel III : Reduce the scene of torture of a man when his scarf is dragged between the wheels. — 11 -00 m. 

(Length retained: 10-00 m.) 

Reel IV : Reduce drastically the scene of love-making between Frank and Jill, deleting shots of his moving hand on 
her bare stomach, back and kissing on the bosom and when they are lying down at the end. — 31 -80 m. 
(Length retained : 25 m.) 

Length of deletions : 42 -80 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3670 -00 m. 

U 

B/S7601 Trailer of “Goodbye 80 -60(1) Paramount Films of Stanley R. Jaffe, (U. 58383 With triangle mark. 

Columbus” (Col.) India Ltd., Hague S.A.). 

(English) (35 mm) Bldg., Sprott Rd,, 24-9-69 

(U.S.A.). Bombay. 


Endorsement 

Original length : 89 -00 m. 

1. Delete the shot of a girl swimming in which her bare bosoms are visible. — 0 -40 m. 

2. Reduce the shot of a boy and a girl taking bath in close physical proximity and delete their subsequent dialogue 
regarding pregnancy.— 8 -00 m. (Length retained : 2 -00 m.). 

Length of deletions : — 8 -40 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 80 -60 m. 

U 

B/57596 “The Silent Witness” 320-04(1) T. J. Gajjar, Examiner Eastman Kodak Com- 58384 — 

(Col.) (English)| (16 Press Building, 3rd pany, (U.S.A.). 

mm) (U.S.A.). floor, 35, Dadal Str- 24-9-69 

eet, Fort, Bombay-1. 


299GJ,'70 — 6 



1732 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2,1892) 


[Part III — Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

B/57812 

Indian News Review 

No. 1094 (35 mm) 
(India). 

178 -00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. 

B/57664-69 

“The Incremin. Years” 
(Col.) (35 mm) (India). 

22 -86(1) 

S. Sukhdev, United 
Film Arts, 14, Rock 
House, Worli, Bom- 
bay-18. 

S. Sukhdev, United 
Film Arts, Bombay- 
18. 

B/57824 

Trailer of “Aradhana” 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 

86 -86(1) 

Shakti Films, 204, Fa- 
mous Cine Bldg., Bom 
bay-11. 

Shakti Films, Bombay- 
- -11. 

B/57715 

“Soniyacha Davas” 
(Marathi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

581 -25(2) 

Raja T. Date, Nav Do- 
mbivli Society, Block 
No. 27, Dombivli, 
Dist. Thana. 

Raja T. E»ate, Dist. 
Thana. 

B/57767 

“Manifesto” (Col-) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

40 -53(1) 

U.S. Information Ser- 
vice, Fazal Bhoy 

House, Marine Lin- 
es, Bombay. 

Richard Preston 1963, 
(U.S.A.). 

B/57768 

“Thanatopsis”(16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

57-91(1) 

Do. 

Ed Emshwiller, 1962 
(U.S.A.). 

B/57763 

“Vivian” (16 mm) (U. 
S.A.). 

28-35(1) 

Do. 

Bruce Corner, 1965 
(U.S.A.). 

B/57741 

“Castro St.” (Col.) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

91 -44(1) 

Do. 

Bruce Bailie, (U.S.A.). 

B/57361 

“To See A Film” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) (In- 
dia). 

30-48(1) 

S. H. Benson (I) Pvt. 
Ltd., Steelcreate Ho- 
use, Bombay-1 . 

Jyoti G. Thakur. 47, 
Laxmi Assurance - 
Bldg. Sir P. M. Rd., 
Bombay-1 

B/57362 

“Vicks In The Air” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (India). 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/57610 

“New Improved For- 
mula 44” (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India) 

30 -48(1) 

National Advertising 
Service P. Ltd. Khor- 
shed Bldg., SirP. M. 
Rd., Bombay. 

Do. 

B/57791 

“Your Property” (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) (India). 

259 -08(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. 

B/57814 

“The Indian Woman” 

(35 mm) (India). 

558(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/57737 

“It’s Fun To Be Thirs- 
ty” (Col.) (English) 

(35 mm) (India). 

29 -87(1) 

Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, India House, 
1st floor, Fort Street, 
Room No. 3, Oppo- 
sit G.P.O., Bombay-1. 

Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, Bombay-1. 

B/57736 

“Built To Take Pun- 
ishment” (English) 

(35 mm) (India). 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/57718 

“Are Pimples Your 
Problem?” (Col.) 

(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/57663 

Trailer of “Franken- 
stein Must Be Des- 
troyed” (Col.) (English) 
(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

74 -06(1) 

Warner Bros. Seven 
Arts (F.E.) Inc., Eros, 
Bldg., Churchgate, 
Bombay. 

Anthony Nelson Keys, 
(U.S.A.). 


6 7 


U 

58385 Valid for 14 ver- 
sions. 

24-9-69 

U 

58386 Valid for English, 
Bengali, Tamil, Te- 

24-9-69 lugu Kannada & 

Malayalam ver- 
sions. 

U 

58387 — 


24-9-69 

U 

58388 


24-9-69 


58389 No dialogue or 

commentary. 

24-9-69 

U 

58390 Do. 


24-9-69 

U 

58391 Do. 


24-9-69 

U 

58392 Do. 


24-9-69 

U 

58393 


24-9-69 

U 

58394 


24-9-69 

U 

58395 


24-9-69 

U 

58396 


24-9-69 

U 

58397 No dialogue or 

commentary. 

24-9-69 

U 

58398 — 


24-9-69 


U 

58399 


24-9-69 

U 

58400 


24-9-69 


U 

59201 


24-9-69 




B&rt III — Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTlKA 2, 1892) 


B/57712 Trailer of “Winning” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (U.S.A.). 


69 -19(1) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 
India P. Ltd., Metro Company Inc., (U. 
House, M. G. Road, S.A.). 

Bombay. 


24-9-69 


B/57713 Teaser Trailer of 39-02(1) 

“Winning” (Col.) 

(English) (35 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 

B/57693 “Glimpses of Enchant- 360 

ing Japan” (Col.) 

(English) (16 mm) 

(India). 

B/57717 “Fun Minus Pimples” 30 -48(1) 

(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (India) 


24-9-69 

U 

Japan Air Lines Co. Japan National 59204 

Ltd., 86, Nariman Tourist Organisation, 

Road, Bombay- 1. Bombay-1. 24-9-69 


Durga Khote Produc- Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, India House, tions, Bombay-1. 

1st floor. Fort Street, 

Room No. 3, Opposite 
G.P.O., Bombay-1. 


B/57756 “9 Variations On A 

Dance Theme” (16 
mm) (U.S.A.). 


143 -26(1) U.S. Information Ser- Hilary Harris 1966, 
vice, Fazal Bhoy (U.S.A.) 

House, Marine Lines, 

Bombay. 


59206 No dialogue 

— commentary. 

24-9-69 


B/57765 “Per-Mu-Tations” 

(Col.) (16mm) 
(U.S.A.) 


83 -82(1) 


John Whitney 1960’s, 
(U.S.A.). 


24-9-69 


B/57764 “The Pop Show” (Col.) 81-38(1) 

16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


Fred Mogubgub, 1965, 
(U.S.A.). 


24-9-69 


B/37761 “Bells Of Atlantis” 104-85(1) 

(Col.) (English) (16 
mm) (U.S.A.). 

B/57755 “Come Dance With 65-53(1) 

Me” (Col.) (16 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 


Ian Hugo, assisted by 
Len Lye 1953, (U.S.A.) 


Thomas Baum And 
Dennis Lo 1966, 
(U.S.A.). 


24-9-69 

U 

59210 No dialogue or 

commentary. 

24-9-69 


B/57766 “On The Edge” (16 81-69(1) 

mm) (U.S.A.). 


B/57822 “Maharashtra Rajya 153-09(1) 
Kustigir Parishad 
Amravati” (Silent) 

(16 mm) (India). 


Curtiss Harington 1949, 
(U.S.A.). 


Sharat Chandra Sinha, Purna Documentaries 
Maltekdi Rd., & Sharat Chandra 
Amravati. Sinha, Amravati. 


24-9-69 

U 

59212 Titles in Marathi. 
25-9-69 


B/57823 “Rashtrasant Shri Tuhdoji 114.86(1) 
Maharaja’s Antim 
Jatra” (nilest) 

(16mm) (India). 


Sharat Chandra Sinha, Purna Documentaries 
Maltekdi Rd. and sharat Sinha, 

Amravati Amravati. 


25-9-69 


B/57600 “The Giver And The 609.60(2) 
Taker” (English) 

(35mm),,(lndia) 


Prakash Arora. Arora Director of Informa- 
Films, Arora Hos- tion, Govt, of Gujarat 
pital Khar, Bombay- Sachivalaya, Ahema- 
52. bad-15 


25-9-69 


B/57806 “Mehrasons” (Col.) 30 -48(1) 
(Hindi) (35mm) 

(India) 


Filmlets (P) Ltd. North 
Bombay Society, 
E-75, Church Rd., 
Juhu, Bombay-54. 


G.S. Chawla, 3/17 
AS AF AURoad, 
New Delhi-I. 


25-9-69 


B/57733 Trailer of “Jeene Ki 
Raah” (Col.)(Hindi) 
(35mm)(India) 


94-49(1) Prasad Productions L. V. Prasad, Piasad 
Pvt. Ltd. 68, Tardeo Productions, Pvt. 
Road, Bombay-34. Ltd., Bombay-34. 


25-9-69 


B/57805 “Neev Ke Patthar” 
(Hindi) (35mm) 
(India). 


454 -00(2) Director of Informa- 
tion, Govt, of U. P., 
Lucknow. 


Mahesh Prasad, Direc- 
tor of Information, - 
Govt. of U.P., 
Lucknow. 


25-9-69 


1734 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24 , 1970 (KARTlKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec.- 4 




' 





1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


B/57804 “Match To Remem- 
ber” (Col.) (English) 
(35mm) (India) 


B/57730 “A Magic Promise” 
(Col.) (English) 
(35mm) (India) 


B/57776 “Look Young” 

(Col.) (English) 
(35mm) (India) 

B/57793 “Health For One and 
— 800 All” (35mm) (India) 


U 

30 -48(1) S. H. Benson (I) Pvt. Jyoti G. Thakur, Films 5921 8 

ltd. Steel Creet House, Media, 47, Laxnni - — — 

Bombay-1. Insurance Bldg. Sir 25-9-69 

P. M. Rd. Bombay-1. 


U 

30-48(1) Inter Publicity Pvt. Do- 59219 — 

Ltd. Mangalor Street, — 

Ballard Estate, Bom- 25-9-69 

bay-I. 

U 

30-48(1) Ama Piivate Ltd. Ama Private Ltd. 59220 

Canada Bldg. Dr. Bombay-1. — — — 

D.N.Rd., Bombay-1. 25-9-69 

U 

30-48(1) Kanti'.al Rathod, Akar Kantilal Rathod, 59221 Valid for English, 

Films, Bhulabbai Bombay-26. Hindi, Gujarati, 

Institute, 89, B.D- Rd., 25-9-69 Bengali, Marathi, 

Bombay-26. Telugu, Kannada & 

Malayalam version. 


B/57732 

B/57731 

B/57578 

B/57579 

B/57580 

B/57577 

B/57200 

B/57611 

B/ 57532 

B/56652 

B/57573 


“Economics of Oil” 
(Col.) (English) 
(16mm) (U.K.) 


“The Land Must 
Provide” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (16mm) (U.K.) 

“Reunion In Switzer- 
land” (Col.) (English) 
(16 mm) (Switzerland) 


“Switzerland” (Col.) 
(16mm) (Switzerland) 


“C. E. H.” (Col.) 
(English) (I6mm) 
(Switzerland) 


“The Four Seasons” 
(Col.) (English) 
(l6mm) (Switzerland) 


“Numerical Control 
With The Low Price 
Tag” (Col.) (English) 
(16mm) (U.S.A.) 


“New 44” (Hindi) 
(35mm) (India) 


“Don Bosco” (Eng- 
lish) (16mm) (Italy) 


“Fever Heat” (Col.) 
(Techniscope) (Eng- 
lish) (35mm) (U.S.A.) 


“Journey To The Far 
Side Of The Sun” 
(Col.) (English) 
(35mm) (U.S.A.) 


109 -12(1) 

Image India Films Pvt. 
Ltd.,Nanabhay Men- 
sion, Sir P. M. Rd., 
Bombay- 1. 

A World Wide Pic- 
tures, (U.K.) 

U 

59222 

— 


25-9-69 


266-70(3) 

Do- 

Douglas Gordon, 
(U.K.) 

U 

59223 

— 



25-9-69 


243(1) 

Consulate General of 
Switzerland, Manek 
Mkt., Nariman Rd., 
Bombay-20. 

Burlet Film Zurich, 
(Switzerland) 

U 

59224 

— 


25-9-69 


210 -00(1) 

Do- 

O.S.E.C., Lausanne, 
Switzerland, (Switzer- 
land). 

U 

59225 

No dialogue 
commentary. 



25-9-69 

70(1) 

Do- 

Schmid Films 

(Switzerland). 

U 

59226 

— 



25-9-69 


166 -00(1) 

Do- 

Condor-Film AG, 

Zurich, (Switzerland) 

U 

59227 

— 



25-9-69 



U 

213 *36(1) Dave B. J. The Supenior Electric 59228 

Company (U.S.A.) — — — 

25-9-69 


U 

30 -48(1) National Advertising Jyoti G. Thakur, Film 59229 

Service P. Ltd., Khor- Media, 47 Laxmi In 

shed Building, Sir surance Bldg., Sir 25-9-69 
P.M. Rd., Bombay. P.M. Rd., Bombay. 

U 

879 -65(2) F. D’Souza, C/o Odha- Concord Productions, 59230 
ram Bulchand & Co., Ltd, (Italy) 


19, Bank Street, Fort, 25-9-69 

Post Box 451, Bom- 
bay-1 . 

U 

2884 -93(10) Paramount Films of Russell S. Doughten, 59231 
India Ltd.. Hague Jr. (U.S.A.) — 

Bldg., Sprott Rd., 26-9-69 

Bombay. 

U 

2715-77(11) Universal Pictures India Universal Pictures 59212 

P. Ltd. Metro House Company Inc. New — 

M.G. Rd. Bombay. York, (U.S.A.) 27-9-69 




Fart III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBEk H 1970 (KAkTlKA 2, 1892) 1735 





- 




1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


B/57597 


B/57219 

B/57394 


Trailer of “Journey To 
The Far Side Of The 
Sun” (Col.) (English) 
(35mm) (U.S.A.) 

“Aradhana” (Col.) 
(Hindi)(35mm)(India) 


“Goodbye Columbus” 
(Col.) (English) 
(35mm)(O.S.A.) 


U 

86 '56(1) Universal Pictures India Universal Pictures 59233 — 

P. Ltd- Metro House Company Inc. New — 

M-G- Rd- Bombay- York, (U-S-A-) 27-9-69 

U 

4663 -44(18) Shakti Films, 204, Shakti Samanta, 59234 — 

Famous Cine Bldg. Bombay-11. 

Bombay-11. 27-9-69 

A 

2690-30(12) Paramount Films of Stanley R. Jaffe, 2620 With triangle mark. 
India Ltd., Hague Bldg., (U.S.A.) — - ■ - - - ■■■ 

Sprott Rd., Bombay. 24-9-69 


Endorsement- 

Original length — 2705 -35m. 

Reel III. — Reduce prolonged kissing between Neil and Brenda. — 1 -92m. ( Length retained— 2 -00m.) 

Reel III— Delete shots of Brenda undressing, running towards the swimming pool in the nude, of her bare bosoms and 
emerging out of water. Also reduce the prolonged kiss between Brenda and Neil.-— 3 -01m. ( Length retained— 
3 -00m.) 

Reel IV— Reduce prolonged kissing between Neil and Brenda — 6 -72m. ( Length retained- — 6 -00m.) 

Reel IV— Reduce co nsidera y the nude bath of Neil and Brenda, deleting shots of nudity and also closedness of 
physical contact whilst rubbing Neil off with a towel. — 3 -40m. (5 -00m. is retained.) 

Length of deletions — 15 -05m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 2690 -30 m. 


ENDORSEMENTS 
ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 


B/52575 

Film — “Maadi Mane Kahva De” (Gujarati) 

U-53177, dt. 30-3-68. 

Reel I — Deleted various shots — 42 -77m. 

Reel I— Added various shots. — 106 -68m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he— 4034 -69m. 
The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 


B/56474 

Film — “Prince” (Col.) (Hindi) 

U-57596, dt. 6-6-69 

Reels 15, 16, 17, & 18 — Deleted various shots & dialogues — 99 -36m. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be — 4523. 85 m. 
The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 


VERSIONS 


B/55579 

Film— “One Man : Jose Gonsalves” (Eng.) 

U-56350, dt. 13-2-69. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in 
unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 


colour. The length of the film remains 


B/55582 

Film — “One Man — Dr. Debakey” (Col.) (Eng.) 

U-56372, dt. 13-2-69. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remain* 
unaltered. s 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 


B/55580 

Film — “One Man : Walter Spiel” (Col.) 

U-56351, dt. 13-2-69. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remain* 
unaltered. UW1I1S 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 


B/54212 

Film — “The Best Advt. for Number Ten” (Eng.) 

U-54944, dt. 6-9-68. 

The certificate is also valid for the Assamese version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unalter d 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th September 1969. * ' 





1736 

The gazette of India, October 24, 1970 (kartika 2, 1892) 

[Part III— Sec. 4 


l 

2 3 4 5 6 

7 


CORRECTION 

B/ 57497 

Film — “Rajasaab” (Col.) (Hindi) 

U-58324 dt. 17-9-69 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 4344 -02m. instead of 4672 -63m. 

The number of reels remains unaffected to 17. 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 

B/56771 

Film — “Izzat” (Col.) (Hindi) 

U-55757 dt. 3-12-68 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 3962 -38 metres instead of 3726 -59 metre*. The 
number of reels remain unaffected at 14. 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd September 1969. 

B/55623 

Film — “Better A Widow” (English) 

U-57587, dt. 6-6-69. 

The number of the reels on the face of the certificate may be read as Eleven instead of Ten. The length mi the film 
remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 25th September 1969. 


B/57471 

Film — “The Madwoman of Chaillot” (Eng.) 

U-58316 dt. 16-9-69. 

The title of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as “The Madwoman Of the Chaillot” (Col.) (English), 
as the film is in Standard Size and not in Panavison. 

The certificate was endorsed on 25th September 1969. 


C/6395 


C/6403 


C/6402 


C/6401 


The Oraons of Sun- 
derban (Beng.) (16mm) 
(India). 


Paschim Banga Sar- 
karer Sambad Chitra-1 
(Beng.) (35mm) (India) 


Trailer of ‘Mon-Niye’ 
(Beng.)(35mm)(India) 


Safe Saving (Col.) 
(Eng.) (35mm)(India) 


CALCUTTA 


U 

175 -86(1) Aurora Film Corpn. Cultural Research ins- 58422 

(P) Ltd., 125, Dharam- titute, Govt, of West — 

tala Street, Calcutta- Bengal. 23-9-69 

13. 

U 

304-80(1) Little Cinema (Calcutta) Little Cinema(Calcutta) 58423 
Private Ltd., 9/1, P. Ltd., 9/1, Lovelock — — — — 
Lovelock Place, Cal- Place, Cal.-19. 24-9-69 

cutta-19. 

U 

106 -68(1) S. M. Films, 22, Radha Girindra Sinha, C/o 58424 

Kanto Jew Street, S.M. Films, 22, Radha - - 

Calcutta-4. Kanto Jew Street, 27-9-69 

Calcutta-4. 

U 

30 -48(1) Candida Films, 19A, Candida Films, 19A, 58425 

Shakespeare Sarani, Shakespeare Sarani, 

Cal.-16. Cal.-16. 27-9-69 


Endorsement — 

This certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Bengali, Malayalam, Marathi & Tamil versions of the film. 


C/6396 


Bandhan (Oriya) 
(35mm)(India) 


4871-01(17) Rajrani Films, Sutahat, 
Cuttack-1. 


U 

Rajrani Films, Sutahat, 58426 

Cuttack-1. — 

27-9-69 


C/6406-6407 Satabdir Oitijya (Col.) 

(Bengali & Hind'"* 
(35mm) (India) 


U 

30 -48(1) Promotions India, 63B, Promotions India, 63B, 58427 

Wellesley Street, Wellesley Street, 

Calcutta-16. Calcutta-16. 27-9-69 


Endorsement — 

The title of the film in Hindi version is “KESH SHRINGAR”. 


U 

C/6404 Kamal Lata (Beng.) 3992-88(14) Chhayabani (P) Ltd., Charu Chitra, 77, Bha- 58428 
(35mm)(India) 77, Dharamtala Street, ramtala Street, Cal.-l 3 . 

Cal.-13. 


27-9-69 




ftRT III— SEC. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


MADRAS 


M/5700 


M/5723 


M/5725 


M/5727 


‘Vemulawada Festi- 
vals* (Telugu) 

(Kodachrome Col- 
our) (35 mm.) India. 

‘Ponnu Maappillay* 
(Tamil) (35 mm.) B & 
W. India. 


361-50(1) Shri J. 

J.S. 


Tiruchirapalli. 


U 

Sadagopan, Shri J. S. Sadagopan, 57351 
Pictorials, J.S. Pictorials, — — - — — — 

salli. Tiruchirapalli. 23-9-69 


3961-17(17) P.S.V. Pictures, P.S.V. Pictures, 57352 With triangle mark. 

First St., Lake Area, First St., Lake Area, — — 

Madras-34. Madras-34. 23-9-69 


W. India. Madras-34. Madras-34. 23-9-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57352-U dated 23rd September 1969 issued to the film ‘Ponnu Mappilay’ (Tamil). 
Length as in the application — 3961-17 Madras. 

Cuts — 

Reel 12 — Delete the dialogue of Sethu “Onnumey Theriyadhu Engarey. Pinnay Metres. 

Pillai Kutti Eppadi ?” (Sound only removed ; replacement of sound approved) 

Actual length of the film, therefore, remains the same namely 3961 -17 Metres in 17 Reels. 

U 

‘Government of 305-00(1) Principal, Institute Principal, Institute 57353 — 

Tamilnadu Regional of Film Technology, of Film Technology, — 

Newsreel Bulletin Madras. Madras. 23-9-69 

No. 16’ (Tamil) (35 
mm.) (B&W.) (India). 


Principal, Institute 
of Film Technology, 
Madras. 


‘Easy to Carry — Easy 
to Care’ (Silent film) 
(35 mm.) (B. & W.) 
(India). 


55-16(1) Shri S. R. 
Madras. 


Saaz, Shri S. R. 
Madras. 


23-9-69 


23-9-69 


24-9-69 


295-00(1) The Principal, The Principal 

Institute of Film Institute of Film 

Technology, Madras. Technology, Madras. 24-9-69 


4890-50(18) Malladi Movies, Malladi Movies, 
Davangere, Mysore. Davangere, Mysore. 


57357 With triangle mark. 
24-9-69 


M/5718 ‘Gruhalakshmi’ (Kan- 4467-14(18) Ramesh Movies, 15, Ramesh Movies, 15, 57355 -- 

nada) (35 mm.) (B & III Cross, N.S. Ill Cross, N. S. — - — 

W.) (India). Iyengar St., Bangalore Iyengar St., Bangalore 24-9-69 

20. 20. 

U 

M/5739 ‘Government of 295-00(1) The Principal, The Principal 57356 — 

Tamilnadu Regional Institute of Film Institute of Film — — 

Newsreel Bulletin Technology, Madras. Technology, Madras. 24-9-69 

No. 16-A. (Tamil) 

(35 mm.) (B & W.) 

(India). 

U 

M/5695 ‘Mukunda Chandra’ 4890-50(18) Malladi Movies, Malladi Movies, 57357 With triangle mark. 

(Kannada) (35 mm.) Davangere, Mysore. Davangere, Mysore. — 

(B & W.) (India). 24-9-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57357-U dated 24th September 1969 — issued to the film ‘Mukunda Chandra’ (Kannada) 
35 mm. B&W. 

Length as in the application — 4897-79 Metres. 

Cuts — 

1 . Reel 2— Delete the words ‘You rascal’ uttered by Satish to Rajni when playing Metres. 

ping-pong and the ball hits him on his eyes. (Sound only)) — 

2. Reel 7 — Delete the portion where Rajni addresses her father Haridas and calls him 

a Rakshasa. (Sound only) — 

3. Reel 12 — Delete the shot where Sarasu is embraced by Rajinder in bathing costume 

and he puts his hand on her breasts and near the arm-pit .. .. 0-91 

4. Reel 15 — Delete the following shots : — (a) Where Rajinder pulls Sarasu bet- 

weenhislegs .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2-13 

(b) Where his neck and head are resting on Sarasu’s busts ; (c) the 

final shot where he is shown lying over her. (2-13 and 4-25) . . . . 4-25 

Total cuts 7-29 

Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4890-50 Metres in 1 8 Reels. 

Particulais of films Certified or Refused certificates by the central Board of film censors during the week ending — 4th October 1969. 

BOMBA Y 


Metres. 


B/57632 


“Man & Computer— 
A Perspective” (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.). 


213-76(4) Sat Saraf, External, I. B. M. (U.K.). 
Communications Offi- 
cer, I.B.M. Nehru 
House, B.S.Z. Marg, 

New Delhi. 


29-9-69 


B/57711 


“Winning” 


(English) (35 mm.) 
(U.S.A.). 


(Col.) 3471-06(18) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 


(I) P. Ltd. Metro Company Inc. New 
House, M.G. Rd„ York, (U.S.A.). 
Bombay- 1. 


29-9-69 


1738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III — Sec 4 


1 

2 

3 

B/57280 

“Bella” (Widescreen) 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm.) (U.S.S.R.). 

3192(12) 

B/57281 

Trailer of “Bella” 

(Widescreen) (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm.) 
(U.S.S.R.). 

90-00(1) 

B/57516 

“The Ugly Duckling” 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm.) (Japan). 

220(1) 

B/57518 

“Cabbage Butterfly” 

(16 mm.) (Japan). 

185(1) 

B/57517 

“Killi Fish” (16 mm.) 
(Japan). 

121-00(1) 

B/57333 

“Tuberculosis : Labo- 
ratory Aids To 

Diagnosis And 

Treatment” (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(U.S.A.). 

138-07(1) 

B/57631 

“Glimpses” (Gandhi 
Centenary Film) 

(Silent) (16 mm.) 
(India). 

91-44(1) 

B/57836 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1095” (35 mm.) 
(India). 

177-65(1) 

B/57859-60 

“Maharashtra News 
No. 208 September 
69” (35 mm.) (India). 

274-32(1) 

B/57862 

“Struggle For Space” 
(English) (35 mm.) 
(India). 

301(1) 

B/57548 

“Dandi Yatra” (Hindi) 
(35 mm.) (India). 

470-60(2) 

B/57500 

“Doli” (Col.) (Hindi) 

(35 mm.) (India). 

4551-87(17) 


Lower Colaba, Rd., (U.S.S.R.). 
Bombay-5. 


& Information Films 
Ltd., National House, 
Tulloch Rd., 

Bombay. 


29-9-69 


29-9-69 


29-9-69 


Gakken 

(Japan). 


U.S. Department of 
Health Education 
& Welfare (U.S.A.). 


National Inst. of National Inst. of 
Design, Ahmedabad. Design, Ahmed abad. - 


Films Division, Films Division, 

Govt, of India, Govt. of India, - 
Bombay. Bombay. 

The Director of The Director of 
Publicity, Govt. Publicity, Govt. - 
of Maharashtra, of Maharashtra, 
Sachivalya, Bombay. Sacbivalya, Bombay. 

Asian Films, Alankar Asian Films, Bombay. 
Theatre Bldg., U.P. 

Rd., Bombay. 


tion, Govt. of tion. Govt. of 
Gujarat, Sachivalya, Gujarat. Sachivalya, 
Ahmedabad-15. Ahmedabad-15. 


ned, Roop Tara 
Studios, Dadar, 
Bombay-14. 


59240 Title in Japanese, 

■ commentary in 

29-9-69 English. 

U 


29-9-69 

U 

59242 


29-9-69 


30-9-69 


59244 Valid for 14 versions. 

30-9-69 

U 

59245 Valid for Marathi 
& Hindi versions. 

30-9-69 


30-9-69 

U 

59247 

30-9-69 


59248 With triangle mark. 
30-9-69 


Endorsement 

Original length — 4561-47 m. 

Reel VIII — From the dance sequence laid in the night club delete the close front view of the dancer in the opening scene 
making indecorous hip movements and her subsequent view as she raises her leg before the hero as also 
her shots in diaphanous costume, shaking busts and her backward hip movements— 9-60 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 4551 • 87 m. 


B/57877 


“Life” (Col.) (35 mm.) 
(India). 


435-25(2) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. of India, Elombay. 


59249 Valid for 14 ver- 

stons. 

30-9-69 


B/57817 “Blue Circle Group 
Sandtex Decorative 
Finish” (Col.) 

(English) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.). 


91-44(1) Mr. Neville Frank Cygnet Films Ltd. 
C. Hilling, Killick (U.K.). 

House, Home Street, 

Fort, Bombay-1. 


30-9-69 


Part III — Sec. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1982) 


1739 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


B/57545 


B/57853 

B/57157 

B/57856 

B/57854 

B/37855 

B/57769 

B/57504 

B/57507 

B/57506 

B/57505 

B/57677 


U 

“Surya Devta” (Hindi) 3945-95(15) World Wide Film Alice Pictures, 18, 59251 With triangle mark. 

(35 mm.) (India). Distributors, 3 F, Swapna, P.M. Rd. 

Naaz Building, Parle (East), Bom- 30-9-69 

Lamington Rd., Bom- bay-57. 

bay-4. 

Endorsement 


Original length — 3960-88 m. 

Ree/ 1— Insert a tablet to the following effect :“The Original story of the marriage of Tapti with Samvarna as given in 
Mahabarata has been presented here with additions and embellishments so as to bring out the importance of 
Surya Devta”. — 6-10 m. 

Reel IX— Delete all references to ‘Laddu’ and ‘Bharphi’ etc., with reference to a woman in the dialogue of Vidushaka 
and Tingala— 9-14 m. 

Reel X— Delete the erotic references in the dialogues between Tingala and another man who is her husband for that 
day— 11-89 m. 


Length of deletions — 21 -03 m. 

Length of additions — 6-10 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be — 3945-95 m. 


“Murphy JahanJahan 
Khushiyan Vahan 

Vahan” (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm.) (India). 

I 

30-48(1) 

16/35 Movie Pro- 
ductions, Hague 

Bldg., Sprott Rd., 
Ballard Estate, 

Bombay. 

16/35 Movie Pro- 
ductions, Bombay. 

“A Problem of The 
Fun-Filled Years” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm.) (India). 

30-48(1) 

Durga Khote Pro- 
ductions, India 

Horn. 1st floor. 

Oppo. G.P.O., Bom- 
bay. 

Durga Khote Pro- 
ductions, Bombay. 

“Keep Pimples ,;A way 
The Clearasil Way” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (India). 

30-48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

“10 Minutes Around 
The U.S.S.R.” 

(Across Georgia) 

(Col.) (English) 

(35 mm) (U.S.S.R.). 

273(1) 

Sovexportfilm, 163, 
Lower Colaba Road, 
Bombay-5. 

Filmexport Studios 
(U.S.S.R.) 

“This is Cosmos 12” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (U.S.S.R.). 

286(1) 

Do. 

Popular Central 

Science Film Studios 
(U.S.S.R.) 

Trailer of “Doli” 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India) 

122(1) 

Prestige Films, Shakti 
Sadgn, 163, Laming- 
ton Road, Bombay-4. 

Prestige Films, Bom- 
bay-4. 

“Digital Computer 

Techniques : Intro- 
duction” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (16mm) (U.S. A.). 

182-88(2) 

National Education 
& Information Films 
Ltd. 

National House, Tu 
lloch Road, Bombay. 

The U.S. Navy Train- 
ing Film (U.S.A.) 

“Mathematics : Un- 
ending Search For 
Excellence” (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

304 -80(3) 

Do. 

U.S. Office of Educa- 
tion (U.S. Department 
of Health, Education 
and Welfare) (U.S. A.) 

“Mathematics Throu- 
gh Discovery” (Eng- 
fish) (16 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 

308 -76(3) 

Do. 

Do. 

"Digital Computer 

Techniques (Col.) 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

160-32(2) 

Do. 

The U.S. Navy Train- 
ing Film (U.S.A.) 

“Jungle King” (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 

3863 -01(15) 

Pankaj Films, Flat No. 
376, 14th Road, 
Khar, Bombay-52. 

J. L. Prasher, Bombay- 
52. 


U 

59252 


3-10-69 


U 

59253 


3-10-69 


U 

59254 


3-10-69 

U 

59255 


3-10-69 


U 

59256 


3-10-69 

U 

59257 


3-10-69 

U 

59258 


3-10-69 


U 

59259 


3-10-69 

U 

59260 


3-10-69 


U 

59261 


3-10-69 


U 

59262 


3-10-69 


299GI/70—7 




1740 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIK.A 1, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 



B/57815 


B/57539 


B/57626 


B/57777-79 


“Footprints On The 
Moon Apollo 11” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (U.S.A.), 

“An Article of Faith” 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 


“Ittefak” (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


“Around The Soviet 
Union No. 49” 
(16 mm) (U.S.S.R.). 


2619-76(10) 20th Century Fox 
Corp. (I) Private Ltd., 
Metro House, M.G. 
Road, Bombay-1. 

375 -81(2) S.P. Chowdhury, C/o 
Image India Films 
Private Limited 
Nanabhay Mansion,, 
Sir P. M. Road, 
Bombay-1. 

3015 -13(12) B. R. Chopra, 4, Chi- 
noy Colony, Juhu 
Road, Santacruz, 
Bombay-54. 

118-85(1) U.S.S.R. Consulate 
General, 42, Nepean 
Sea Road, Bombay. 


U 

Barry Coe (U.S.A.) 59263 

3- 10-69 
U 

S. P. Chowdhury, 59264 

Bombay. 

4- 10-69 


U 

B. R. Chopra, Bom- 59265 

bay-54. 

4-10-69 

U 

Central Documentary 59266 

Film Studio 

(U.S.S.R.) 4-10-69 


Endorsement 

Original length — 120 -00m. 

Delete the following sentence from the commentary : 

“The American aggressors brought violence and destruction to this land”.— 1.15m. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 118 -85m. 


With triangle mark. 
Valid for Bengali, 
Marathi & Pun- 
jabi versions. 


C/6400 


M/5697 


M/5699 


ENDORSEMENTS 
ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 

B/55083 

Film — “Fallacy” (English) 

U-57733 dated 3-7-69 

The addition of the words “The film is a monologue of an anguished writer about problems of life’ is approved. 
—4 *27m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be — 193 -76wi. 

The certificate was endorsed on 3rd October 1969. 

B/56645 

Film — “She Knows” (English) 

U-57198 dated 22-5-69 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th October 1 969. 

B/56646 

Film — “Can You Drink An Apple” (English) 

U-57546 dated 31-5-69 

The certificate is vaild also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 4th October 1969. 


CALCUTTA 

U 

Maa-O-Meye (Beng.) 3640-53(13) B. N. Roy Produc- B. N. Roy, C/o B. N. 58429 

(35 mm) (India). tions, 2, Chowring- Roy Productions, 

hee Road, Calcutta- 2, Chowringhee Rd., 29-9-6) 
13- Calcutta-13. 


MADRAS 


U 


‘Dhorala Dhongala’ 3834-38(15) Sunil Pictures. 505, Sunil Pictures, 505, 57358 With triangle mark. 

(Telugu) (35 mm) Mint St., Madras-3. Mint St., Madras-3. 

(B & W) (India). 39-9-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57358-U dated 29th September 1969 — issued to the fibn ‘Dhorala Dhongala’(Telugu). 
Length as in the application — 3834 -38 Metres. 


Cut — 


Metres 


Reel 5 — Delete the word ‘Padma Shri’ in the dialogue of Jeedi. ( Sound only). 
Actual length of the film remains the same, namely 3834 -38 Meters in 15 Reels. 


U 

‘Konda Veetu Simham’ 4908 -20(19) East India Film Co. East India Film Co. 4, 57359 

(Telugu) (Eastman- (P) Ltd., 4, General General Patters Rd., 

colour) (35 mm) Patters Road, Madras-2. 29-9-69 

(India). Madras-2. 


‘Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 



M/5714 ‘Manushulu Marali’ 4377. 25(16) Gemini Film Enter- Gemini Film Enter- 57360 


M/5726 


M/5740 


(Telugu) (35 mm) prises, 23, Edward El- prises, 23, Edward El- — ■ 

(B & W) (India). liots Road, Madras-4, liots Road, Madras-4. 29-9-69 

U 

'Life that was and still 53 -66(1) Em. K. Movies, 14, Shri M. K. Tiwari, Em. 57361 With triangle mark. 

could be’ (Silent) (35 Gaudiamutt Road, K. Movies, 14, Gaudia- 

mm) (B & W) (India). Madras-14. mutt Road, Madras-14. 30-9-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57361-U dated 30th September 1969 issued to the film ‘Life that was and still could be’ 
(Silent) 35 mm. 

Length as in the application — 55 -17 Metres. 

Cut — Metres 

Delete all the shots showing the male organ, even though covered, after the vasectomy 

operation . . . . . . . . . . 1-51 

Actual length of the film after the cut will be 53 • 66 Metres in One Reel. 

U 

‘Iru Kodugal’ (Tamil) 4681-72(18) Kala Kendra Produc- Kala Kendra Produc- 57362 With triangle mark. 

(35 mm) (B & W) tions, 39-A, East tions, 39-A, East 

(India). Abhiramapuram, Abhiramapuram, 30-9-69 

Madras-4. Madrac-4. 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57362-U dated 30th September, 1969 issued to the film ‘Iru Koduga]’ (Tamil) 
35 mm. B&W. 

Length as in the application — 4721 -91 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1 . Reel 2 —Delete the statement made by a staff of the Collector’s office (Nagesh) 

“I think they are girls” . . . . . . . . . . . . 0-60 

2. Reel 8 — Delete the statement made by the staff of the Collector’s office “Collector 

Arnma Ivanai Vechhikittu Irukkanga” ( Sound only; replacement 

of sound approved). .. .. .. .. .. . . — 

3. Reel 8 — Delete the reference made to the marriage of Jacqueline Kennedy and 

Onassis .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 9 14 

4. Reel 1 1 — Delete the statement made by Nagesh to the lady clerk of the Collector’s 

office “Munney Pillai Petthirundhathanc Theriyum” . . . . 2-74 

5. Reel 1 8 — Delete the statement madebyjaya’s father “Maappillai Gettikaiaju, 

Sari Kattiduvaaru” . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-25 

Total cuts .. 16-73 


Metres 


Voluntary deletions from Reels 16 & 17 — 23.46 Metres. 

Actual length of the film after cuts and voluntary deletions will be 4681 .72 Metres in 1 8 Reels. 

M/5724 ‘Elleloo Naane’ 4241 -30(15) Parameswari Films, Parameswari Films, 237-A With triangle mark 

(Kannada) (35 mm) ‘Chitaranjan Mahal’ Chitaranjan Mahal. — 

(B&W) (India). Premier Industrial Premier Industrial 30-9-69 

Estates, Mysore-2. Estates, Mysore-2. 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 237-A dt. 30-9-69 issued to the film ‘Elleloo Naane’ (Kannada) 35mm. B&W. 
Length as in the application — 4267 -20 Metres. 


Cuts— 


1. Reel A— Delete the shot in the dance where two separate pairs of girls face each 

other and shake their bodies sideways in a suggestive manner 

2. Reel 4 — In the song beginning with the words ‘Yaru Kanada Aa Swarga’ delete 

the picturisation corresponding to following 3 lines (a) Tore 
Ninthitha Ye Hennu Illidhe; (b) Matthu Kavidhaka Aaveka 
Jallinthadhu ; (c) Theerusu Daha Eedeha Jammendhadhu 

Total cuts 


M/5741 


M/5742 


Actual length of the film after the cuts will be 4241 .30 Metres in 1 5 Reels. 

‘Keep the Wheels 30-48(1) Krishnaswamy Asso- Krishnaswamy Asso- 
Moving’ (English) (35 dates, CIT, Madras-4, dates, CIT, Madras-4, 

mm) (B&W) (India). 


‘Sarivana Murai’ 
(Tamil) (35 mm) 
(B&W) (India). 


38-71(1) 


30-9-69 

U 

57364 


30-9-69 





1742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III — Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

M/5743 

‘Sariyana Margamu’ 
(Telugu) (35 mm.) 
(B&W) (India). 

41-76(1) 

Krishnaswamy Asso- 
ciates, CIT, Madras-4. 

Krishnaswamy, Asso- 
ciates, CIT, Madras- 
4. 

M/5728 

‘Kassim Bros’ (Tamil) 
(35 mm) (B&W) 
(India). 

45 -72(1) 

V. K. Publicities, 77, 
Pondy Bazar, Madras- 
17. 

V. K. Publicities, 77, 
Pondy Bazar, Madras- 
17. 

M/5662 

‘Fluid Mechanics — The 
Boundary Layei ’ 

(English) (16 mm) 
(Colour) (USA). 

335 -28(1) 

The Principal, College 
of Engineering, 

Madras-25. 

St. Anthony Falls 

Hydraulic Labora- 

tory, University of 
Minnesota, USA. 

M/5746 

‘Dharmapathni’ (Tel- 
ugu) (35 mm) (B & 
W) (India). 

4509 -80(16) 

Reddy & Company, 
No. 3, III Cross St., 
West CIT, Madras-35. 

Reddy & Company, 
No. 3,111 Cross, West 
CIT, Madias-35. 


6 


U 

57365 

30-9-69 

U 

57366 

3- 10-69 

U 

57367 

4- 10-69 

U 

57368 
4-10-69 


7 


P.E. 


With triangle 
mark. 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 57368-U dated 4th October 1969 issued to the film Dharmapathni’ (Telugu). 
Length as in the application — 4515 -87 Metres. 


Cuts — 

1 . Reel 3 — Song l— Delete the portion of the shot where Madhu’s face passes over the bust of 

padma .. 

2. Reel 9 — Delete the dialogue of Nagahbushanam “Aavidaku Pillalu Pattarani Cheppevu”, 

referring to his sister 

3. Reel 14 — Song 5— (a) Delete the shot of Ma]li caressing the thigh of Bulli when they sit together; 

(b) Delete the shot of Malli laying his hands on the posterior of Bulli and pushing her for- 
ward . . 


Metres 


0-45 

2-43 

2.28 

0-91 


Total cuts 


6 07 


Actual length of tne film after cuts will be 4509 -80 Metres in 1 6 Reels. 

Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificate by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week-ending 

11 th October 1969. 


B/57858 

B/57902 

B/57615 

B/57895 

B/57894 

B/57503 

B/57759 


“Hojamaalo” (Sin- 
dhi) (35 mm) (India). 


Trailer of “Anjaan 
Hai Koyee” (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India), 


BOMBAY 

3751 -48(14) Koonj Films, 22-B, Hari Motwani, Bom- 
Trilok, Dr. Ambed- . bay-50, 
kar Road, Bombay-50. 

90-53(1) I. M. Kunnu, C/o Brabmbhat, Bem- 
Bombay Film Labo- bay-28, 
ratory, Dadar, 

Bombay-28. 


U 

59267 


6-10-69 

U 

59268 


6-10-69 


“Rainbow Over 1470-00(5) 
Russia” (35 mm) 

(U.S.S.R.) (Col.). 


The U.S.S.R. Con- Leningrad 
sulate General, 42, Studio, 

Nepean Sea Road, 

Bombay. 


U 

Newsreel 59269 Russian titles valid 

U.S.S.R. for English, Mara- 

6-10-69 thi, Gujarati & 
Malayalam ver- 
sions. 


“Busli Transistor Ra- 
dios” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) 
(India). 

“Break The Fashion 
Berrier” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) 
(India;. 


“Digital Computer 

' Techniques : Com- 
puter Logic Logic 
Elements (Part-2)” 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm) (U.S.A.). 

“Daybreak Express” 
(Col.) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


U 

30-48(1) United Film Arts, United Film Arts, 5S270 

14, Rock House, Bombay- 1 8. — - — — - — 

Worli, Bombay-18 6-10-69 


U 

30-48(1) Do. Do. 59271 


6-10-69 


U 

171 -60(2) National Education The U. S. Navy Train- 59272 

& Information Films ing Film (U.S.A.) — — 

Ltd., National House, 6-10-69 

Tulloch Rd., Bombay. 


U 

60 -96 (1) U. S. Information D. A. Pennebaker 59273 No dialogue or com- 

Service, Fazal Bhoy (U.S.A.) mentary. 

House, Marine Lines, 6-10-69 

Bombay. 




-Part III — Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


B/57825 “Chhan Chham 

Karta Vim” (Hindi) 
(Col.) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57833 “The World of Dun- 

lopillo” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57863- “How To Be Beauti- 

64 ful” (35 mm) (India). 


B/57865- “Double Acting De- 

66 quadin” (35 mm) 

(India). 

B/57631 “True Stories” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.S.R.). 

B/57839- “Vera” (Col.) (35 mm) 

45 (India). 


22-85(1) F. B. Productions, F. B. Productions. 59274 

Film Centre, 68, Bombay-34. 

Tardeo Road, Bom- 6-10-69 

bay-34. 


30 -00(1) 


6-10-69 


30-00(1) Widescreen, 4, Shirin, Widescreen, Bombay-5. 59276 Valid for English 


' Colaba Post Office, 
Bombay-5. 


30-00(1) 


& Hindi versions. 

6-10-69 

U 

-59277 Valid for English 

tt T-r ‘ J* ; . 


6-10-69 

U 

59278 


& Hindi versions. 


570-00(5) U.S.S.R. Consulate The Centra] Popular 59278 
General, 42, Nepean Science Film — — — — 

Sea Road, Bombay. Studios (U.S.S.R.) 7-10-69 


29 -87(1) Trio Films, Jyoti Stu- Trio Films, Bombay-7, 
dies, Kennedy Bridge, 

Bombay-7. 


59279 Valid for English, 

— Hindi, Bengali, 

7-10-69 Tamil, Telugu, 

Kannada & Mal- 
yalam versions. 


B/57628 


B/57639 


“Apna Khoon Apna 
Dushman” (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


3962 -40(16) Rainbow Films, 139, Kumran A. Khan, 
Famous Cine Bldg. Bombay-11. 

Hains Rd., Maha- 
laxmi, Bombay-11. 


Pyar Hi Pyar” (Col.) 4411-07(17) R. S. Productions, 8, Rajaram & 


(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


Kakad Estate, Worli Wagle, Bombay-l 8. 
Sea Face, Bombay-18. 


7-10-69 


59281 With triangle mark. 
7-10-69 


Endorsement 

Original length — 4457 -40m. 

Reel II— Reduce the dialogues about sharing of the embrace of the girl and the actual scene of embracing of Charn- 
chham by Vijay.— 25 .30 m. ( Length retained— 49 .07 m.) 

Reel VII— Delete the word ‘Sala’ used twice by Jatadhari, also delete the following sentence in the comedian’s dialogue 
‘Garam karke aata hun’ ( Sound only). 

Reel VIII— Delete the following dialogue “Wohi jo ek jawan mard ek hasin ladki se chahta hai — upto Mard aurat 
se kya chahta hai” — 5 -49 m. 

Reel IX — In the scene in the office of the CID Inspector delete the shot showing Gupta catching the hand of Kavita — 
2 -74m. 

Reel XII — Delete the underlined word from the following sentence. “Main hi Mrs. Savitri Nagam Hun” ( Sound 
only) 

Reel XVII— Reduce the fight sequences.— 12 -80m. ( Length retained — 123 -44m.) 

Length of deletions — 46 -33m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 441 1 -07m. 


B/57905 “Teaser Trailer of 

“The Mad Woman 
of Chaffiot” (Col.) 
(35 mm) (English) 
(U.S.A.). 

B/57890 “Ratlis Kalpavri- 

ksha” (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


28-65(1) Warner Bros. Seven Mr. Ely A. Landau 59282 

Arts (F.E.) Inc. (U.S.A.) 

Eros Building Church- 7-10-69 

gate, Bombay. 


29-87(1) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Bom- 59283 

Studio, Kennedy bay-7. — 

Bridge, Bombay-7. 8-10-69 


B/57869 “Bringing - Up - Baby” 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 


B/57870 “Talash” (Col.) 

(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


30-48(1) Filmiets (P.) Ltd., G. S. Chawla, 3-17/A, 
North Bombay Asaf Ali Road, 

Society, E-75, Church New Delhi-2. 

Road, Juhu, Bom- 
bay-54. 

30-48(1) Do. Do. 


8-10-69 


8-10-69 



1744 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIK A 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 






Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1745 


U 


B/57911 

“Introduction To 

Phote-Interpretation 
(Col.) (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

243 -54(1) 

Director Incharge, 

Indian Photo-Inter- 
pretatio, Instituten 
Survey of India, 51- 
H, Hardwar Road, 
Dehradun. 

U. S. Geological Sur- 
vey (U.S.A.). 

59300 

10-10-69 


B/57912 

‘Aerial Photo-In- 

terpretation For The 
Discovery And Eva- 
luation of Forest Re- 
sources” (Col.) 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

426-72(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59301 

10-10-69 

U 

59302 

10-10-69 


B/57927-28 

“Gandhijee Champa- 
ran Me” (35 mm) 
(India). 

385 -57(1) 

Film Production Offi- 
cer, Govt, of Bihar. 

Director of Public Re- 
lations, Govt, of India. 

Valid for Hindi & 
English versions. 

B/57612 

“Extra Strong Formu- 
la For Coughs” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

30 -48(1) 

National Advertising 
Service, Khorshed 

Bldg. Sir P. M. Rd„ 
Bombay-1. 

Jyoti G. Thakur, Jyoti 
Studios, Kennedy 

Bridge, Bombay. 

59303 

10-10-69 

— 

B/57838 

“Sight Seeing” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

30-48(1) 

S. H. Benson (I) (P) 
Ltd. Steel Crete 
House, D. O. Road, 
Bombay. 

Do. 

U 

59304 

10-10-69 

— 

B/57944 

Trailer of “Seven Bri- 
des For Seven Bro- 
thers” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 

82-60(1) 

Metro Goldwyn Ma- 
yer (I) Ltd. Metro 
House, M. G. Road, 
Bombay. 

Metro Goldwyn May- 
er (U.S.A.). 

U 

59305 

10-10-69 


B/57645 

“Frankenstein Must 

Be Destroyed” (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

2757 (6) 

Warner Bros. Seven 
Arts (F.E.)Inc. Eros 
Bldg. Churchgate, 
Bombay. 

Anthony Nelson Keys. 
(U.S.A.). 

A 

2621 

6-10-69 


B/57334 

“Identification Of 

Early Syphilis” (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

266-39(1) 

National Education 
& Information Films 
Ltd., National 

House, Tulloch 

Road, Bombay. 

U. S. Department of 
Health & Welfare - 
(U.S.A.) 

A 

2622 

9-10-69 



endorsements 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 

B/57219 

Film — “Aradhana” (Col.) (Hindi). 

U-59234 dated 27-9-69. 

Reel IV — Deleted various shots — -1 5-54 m. 

Reel XVIII — Deleted various shots — 1 • 52 m. 

( Replaced with approved fhots ) — 1 • 52 m. 

Length of deletions — 17-06 m. 

Length of replacements — 1 • 52 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be — 4647 • 96 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 7th October 1969. 

B/31845 

Film — “Swifter Than The Deer” (Col.) (Eng.) (35 mm) 

U-33401 dated 31-8-61. 

Deleted various shots measuring— 7 • 62 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be — 30-48 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969. 

VERSIONS 

B/57642 

Film — “Don’t Let Pimples Spoil Your Fun” (Eng.) (Col.) 

TJ-58273 dated 9-9-69. 

The certificate is also valid for the Hindi version in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered. 
The certificate was endorsed on 6th October 1969. 



1746 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III — Sec. *4 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 


7 


B/57641 

Film — “For Pimples — A Simple Solution” 

U-58274 dated 9-9-69 

The certificate is also valid for the Hindi & Telugu versions of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 6th October 1969. 

B/47767 

Film —' 7 days to Beauty” (Col.) (English) 

U-48620 dated 23-9-66 

The certificate is also valid for the Bengali version of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unaffected. 

The certificate was endorsed on 6th October 1969. 

B/57898 

Film — “Men of Action” (Col.) (English) 

U-58369 dated 22-9-59 

The certificate is valid also for the Oriya, Kannada & Malayalam versions of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969 

B/57885 

Film — “Are Pimples Your Problem ” (English) 

U-58400 dated 24-9-69 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Gujarati, Marathi, Bengali & Tamil versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969. 

B/57833 

Film — “The World Of Dunlopillo” (English) (Col.) 

U-59275 dated 6-10-69 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Bengali & Tamil versions of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 9th October 1969. 

B/57879 

Him— “Fun Minus Pimples” (Eng.) (Col.) 

U-59205 dated 24-9-69 

The certificate is valid also for the Marathi, Gujarati & Bengali versions of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 9th October 1969. 

CORRECTION 


B/57T36 

Film — “Built To Take Punishment” (English) 

U-58399 dated 24-9-69 

The name of the applicant on the reverse of the certificate may be read as “Ulka Advertising” and not “Durga 
Khote Productions”. 

The certificate was endorsed on 8th October 1969. 


CALCUTTA 


C-6398-6399 Rup-Holo-Aporup 

(Col.) (Bengali) 
& Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


C/6397 


Doctor Bezbarooah 
(Assamese) (35 mm) 
(India). 


38-lU(») 


4,238.20(16) 


U 

Progressive Enter- Progressive Enter- 58431 

prisers, 32/3/ 5B, Sa- prisers, 32/3/5B, Sa- — 

hitya Parishad Street, hitya Parishad Street, 7-10-69 
Calcutta-6. Calcutta-6. 


Rangghar Cine Pro- 
ductions, Dibrugarh, 
Assam. 


U 

Rangghar Cine Pro- 58431 

ductions, Dibrugarh, -— 

Assam. 10-10-69 


With triangle marks. 


Original length — 4267-20 metres. 


Endorsement — 

Reel 11— -Remove the impression of rape on Sonetora by Parama Hazarika by deleting all shots beginning from 
his pulling off the bed cover from her body when she was lying on the bed and ending with her running away.— 
23-00 metres. 

Ree l 13— Delete the words “Whisky am woh ladki” from the dialogue of Parama Hazarika— 3 • 00 metres. 

Reel 13— Deleted voluntarily the following dialogues : 

“Pap ? Money Lakhe ? Khoda ? Iswar ? God ? 

I want to meet and crush them all” 3-00 metres. 

Total deletions— 29 Metros. 

Final length after above deletions — 4238-20 metres. 



M299GI/70— 8 





1748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


Particulars of Films Certified or refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 18 th October 1 969. 


B/57783 


B/57323 


B/57324 


B/57692 


B/57269 


B/57256 


Trailer of “Beti” 82-30(1) 
(Col.) (Hindustani) 

(35 mm) (India). 


Endorsement — 


BOMBA Y 

Movie Advertising K.P. S. Films, 
Agency, 3/ 6th floor, bay-34. 

Air Condition Mar- 
ket, Tardeo, Bombay- 
34. 


U 

Bom- 59306 

With triangle mark. 

13-10-69 


Original length — 87 -48 m. 

Delete the words of the comedian to the woman “Zara tere nazuk pet ko dekhun”, therewith making a move 
to feel her stomach and the subsequent dialogue relating thereto. — 5 -18 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 82 -30 m. 


Teaser Trailer of 
“Alfred The Great” 
(Widescreen) (Eng- 
lish) (Col.) <U. S. 
A.). 

Announcement Trailer 
of “Alfred The Great” 
(Widescreen) (Eng- 
lish) (Col.) (35 mm) 
(U. S. A.). 

“Mother’s Devotion” 
(Hindi) (16 mm) 
(U. S. S. R.). 


“Mr. Dudley Senana- 
yake Prime Minister 
of Ceylon Visits 
India” (English) (35 
mm) (India). 

“Mackenna’s Gold” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (U. S. A.). 


U 

31-39(1) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Mayer, 59307 

India Ltd. Metro (U. S. A.). — - 

House, M.G. Road, 13-10-69 

Bombay-1. 

U 

45 -72(1) Do. Do. 59308 


13-10-69 


968 -00(9) 


468 -00(2) 


The U.S.S.R. Consu- 
late General, 42, 
Nepean Sea Rd. 
Bombay. 

Film Division, Govt, 
of India, 24, Peddar 
Rd. Bombay. 


U 

Maxim Gorky Film 59309 
Studio, (U. S. S. R.). — 

13- 10-69 

U 

Film Division, Govt. 59310 
of India Bombay. — — — — 

14- 10-69 


3834 -99(9) Columbia Films of India 
Ltd. Metro House, M. 
G. Rd. Bombay-1. 


U 

Carl Foreman, (U. S. 59311 

A). With triangle mark. 

15-10-69 


Endorsement — 

Original length — 3842 -31 m. 

Reels V A FI— During the swimming scene of Colarado and Hesh-ke in the nude, delete shots of Colarodo and 
also Hesh-ke when she is dipping in the pool, emerging from the water and when her bare bosoms are pro- 
minently seen. — 7 -32 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 3834 -99 m. 


B/57965 

“I. N. R. No. 1097” 
(35 mm) (Inidia). 

B/57950 

“O. T. C. Woollen 
Fabrics” (Col.) 

(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57775 

“Return To Naza- 
reth” (Col.) (Hin- 
dustani) (16 mm) 
(India). 

B/57289 

“Honour The Verdict” 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57268 

“Prime Minister of 
India Visits Bhutan 
& Sikkim” (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 

B/57861 

Trailer of “Sanghursh” 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 


U 

150-57(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 59312 

of India, Bombay. of India, Bombay. Valid for 14 versions. 

15-10-69 

U 

30-18(1) Kashmir Films, 4, N. D. Qazi, Kashmir 59313 

Ground floor, Pam- Films, Srinagar — 

posh Bldg. Residency (Kashmir). 16-10-69 

Rd. Srinagar (Kashmir) 


304 -80(1) 

J. Me Nally, 21, 
Club back Rd. 
Bombay-8. 

Cathelral Films, Bom- 
bay-8. 

59314 

17-10-69 

U 

— 

154-00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. 

59315 

17-10-69 

U 

— 

504(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

59316 

17-10-69 

U 

— 

109(1) 

Rahul Theatres (India) 
309-13, Famous Cine 
Bldg. Mahalaxmi, 
Bombay-11. 

H. S. Rawail, Bombay- 
11. 

59317 

17-10-69 

— 


1 


2 


3 


5 


6 


B/57941 

B/57943 

B/57692 

B/57949 

B/57926 

B/57393 

B/57945 

B/57916 

B/57946 

B/57625 

B/56501 


“The White Teddy 
Bear” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) 
(Sweden). 


“Barn Och Farm” 
(Children And 
Colour) (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) 
(Sweden). 

“Laser” (English) (16 
mm) (U. K.). 


“The Language of 
Japan” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) 
(Sweden). 


“Hydraulics of Cul- 
vert Inlets” (Silent) 
(Colour) (16mm) 
(U.S.A.) 


Trailer of “Project X” 
(Col.) (English) 
(35mm) (U.S.A.) 


“The Pharmaceutical 
Industry In India” 
(Col.) (English) 
(35mm) (India) 


“Start A Long Affair” 
(Col.) (English) 

(35mm) (India) 

“Sati Sulochana” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 


“Mani Vafadari” 
(Gujarati) (16 mm) 
(U.S.S.R.). 

“The Prime of Miss 
Jean Brodie” (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


259 -08(1) Royal Swedish Embassy Swedish Institute Gun- 
Indian Mercantile narHoghend (Sweden) 

Chambers, Nicol Rd. 

Ballard Estate, 

Bombay. 


17-10-69 


259 08(1) 


Thermenius Film 59319 

National Direction 

of Education, (Sweden) 17-10-69 


160 -32(1) National Education & 
Information Films Ltd. 
National House, 
Tulloch Rd. Bombay. 


B. B. C. T. V. Enter- 59320 

prises, (U. K.). 

17-10-69 


215(1) M. O. Foreign Affairs 
Consulate General of 
Japan, Kashmir 
House, 19, Nepean 
Sea Rd. Bombay-6 
WB 

165 -51(2) Chief Audio-visual Br- 
anch U.S. Agency 
for International De- 
velopment (U.S.A.I. 
D.) 

60 -65(1) Paramount Films of 
India Ltd. Hague 
Bldg. Sprott Rd. 
Bombay. 


Nihon Gijutsu Eigasha, 59321 

(Sweden). 

17-10-69 


Lorenz G. Straub, 59322 

(U.S.A.) 

17-10-69 


William Castle, 59323 

(U.S.A.) 

17-10-69 


292 -95(1) The Basic Chemicals, 
Pharmaceuticals & 
Soaps Export pro- 
motion Council Jhansi 
Castle, 7, Cooperage 
Rd. Bombay-1. 


Durga Khote Pro- 59324 

duction, India House — 

First floor Forts 17-10-69 
Street, Bombay. 


30 -48(1) 


3907 -10(15) 


United Film Arts, 
14, Rock House, Wo- 
rli, Bombay-18. 

S. A. Kapoor, C/o 
Shree Sound Studios, 
Gokuldas Pasta Rd., 
Bombay-14. 


United Film Arts 59325 

Bombay-18. 

17-10-69 

U 

S. A. Kapoor, Bom- 59326 

bay-14. 

18-10-69 


968 -00(9) U.S.S.R. Consulate 
General, 42, Nepean 
SeaRd. Bombay. 


Gorky Film Studio, 59327 

(U.S.S.R.). 

18-10-69 


3148 -64(12) 


20th Century Fox 
Corp. (I) Pvt. Ltd., 
Metro House, M. G. 
Rd., Bombay. 


Robert Fryer (U.S.A.). 2623 With triangle mark. 

16-10-69 


Endorsement- 

Original length — 3200 -40 m. 

Reel III — From the dialogue between Jenny and Sandy, delete the following sentence : “Do you think Miss Brodie 
had sexual intercourse with Hugh of Flanders? Before he fell?” Also in the conversation of the girls Sandy, 
Jenny and Monica, delete the portion beginning with Sandy’s remarks — “Miss Brodie’s legs are longer than Mr. 
Lowther’s,” upto “We will have to watch Miss Brodie’s stomach”. — 19 -66 m. 

Reel III— Delete the shot of Lloyd showing a nude male portrait on the easel. — 3 -43 m. 

Reel IX— Delete the shots showing : 

(i) Sandy lying on a couch posing as nude. 

(ii) Her full bare back while she stands nude before she puts on a blue sweater. 

Thereafter, reduce the love scene when Lloyd is kissing her bare back, shoulders and bosoms. — 28 -67 m. 

( Length retained — 3 -35 m). 

Length of deletions — 51 -76 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 3148 -64 m. 





1750 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTlK A 2, 1892) (Part HI— Sec.' 



1 

2 

3 4 

5 

6 

B/57644 

“The Rain People” 

2781-30(11) Warner Bros. Seven 

Ron Colby, Bart Pat- 

A 

2624 

(Col.) (English) 

(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

Arts (F.E.) Inc., Eros 
Bldg., Churchgate, 
Bombay. 

ton (U.S.A.). 

17-10-69 


ENDORSEMENTS 
ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 

B/57626. 

Film — “Ittefaq” (Col.) (Hindi). 

U-59265 dt. 4-10-69. 

Reel XII — Added approved commentary. (Sound only). 

Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid alterations remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969. 

B/56996. 

Film — “Nandayala Jate” (Marathi). 

U-57720 dt 2-7-1969. 

Added — 

Reel II — Folk Dance — 235 -00 m. 

Reel XI — Lavani Dance — 274 -32 m. 

Reel XII — Lavani Dance — 74 '68 m. 

Length of additions — 584 -00 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be— 3936 80 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 15th October 1969. 

VERSIONS 

B/57906. 

Film — “Hayes Jones : One Man Series’’ (English). 

U-56370 dt. 13-2-1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969. 

B/57918. 

Film— “Keep Pimples Away, The Clearail Way.” (Col.) (English). 

U-59254, dt. 3-10-1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Marathi, Tamil, Assamese, Kannada & Malayalam versions of the film, in 
colour. The length of the film remains unaffected. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969. 

B/57908. 

Film — “The Wyeth Phenomenon” (Col.). 

U-52588 dt, 30-12-1967. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969. 

B/57917. 

Film— ‘A Problem Of The Fun Filled Years” (Col.) (English). 

U-59253 dt., 3-10-1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered. 
The certificate was endorsed on 14th October 1969. 

CORRECTION 

B/57697. 

Film — “Samay Bada Balwan” (Hindustani). 

U-58343, dt. 19-9-1969. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 3988 -92 metres instead of 4150 metres state 
earlier. The number of reels remain same. 

The certificate was endorsed on 16th October 1969. 

B/57951. 

Film — “Look Young” (Col.) (English). 

U-59220, dt. 25-9-1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Assamese & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the 
film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 16th October 1969. 

B/57955. 

Film — “Dandi Yatra” (Hindi). 

U-59247, dt 30-9-1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the English, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, 
Oriya versions. The length of the film remains unaffected. 

The certificate was endorsed on 16th October 1969. 




Part III — Sec. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1751 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


C/6408 


C/6416 


C/6412 


C/6417-18 


M/5758 


M/5757 

M/5729 


CALCUTTA 


Chikmik Bijoli 

(Assamese) (35 mm) 
(India). 


4767-99(17) Rajshri Productions, Shri Tarach and Bar- 
3, Sooterkin Street, jatya & Dr. Bhupen 
Caicutta-13. Hazarika. C/o Raj- 

shri Productions, 3, 
Sooterkin Street, Cal- 
cutta-13. 


Mahishasur Mardini 
(Bengali) (35 mm) 
(India). 


4071 -21(16) Chandan-Ashis Pro- 
ductions, 26, Hindus- 
than Park, Calcutta- 
29. 


Chandan-Ashis Pro- 
ductions, 26, Hindus- 
than Park, Calcutta- 
29. 


Shine 65 (Bengali, 
Hindi & Oriya) 
(35 mm) (India). 

Endorsement : — 


30 -48(1) 


Cinematographic Pub- 
licity Service, 11, 
Amita Ghose Road, 
Calcutta-29. 


Cinematographic Pub- 
licity Service, 11, 
Amita Ghose Road, 
Calcutta-29. 


This certificate is valid also for the Assamese version of the film. 


Ekti Satya Ghataoa 38-57(1) Ffimlet Advertising, AsokBagchi& Aloke 
(Bengali & Hindi) 109, Bidhan Sarani, N. Bagchi, 109, Bi- 

(35 mm) (India). Calcutta-4. dhan Sarani, Calcutta 

-4. 

Endorsement : — 

The title of the film in Hindi version is “Ek Saachi Kahani”. 


U 

58432 


14-10-69 


U 

58433 
15-10-69 

U 

58434 
15-10-69 


U 

58435 


16-10-69 


Trailer of ‘Panappei- 
gal’ (Tamil) (35 mm) 
(B.&W.) (India). 


MADRAS 

U 

121 -01(1) Viswasanthi Pictures, Viswasanthi Pictures, 57374 With triangle mark. 

Usman Road, Madras- Usman Rd., Madras- 

17. 17. 13-10-69 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 57374-U dated 13th October 1969— issued to the film Trailer of ‘Panappeigal’ (Tamil) 
(35 mm.) (B.&W.) 

Length as in the application — 121 -92 Metres. 


Cut — 

Delete the shots of the shaking of the breasts and standing between the legs of men. 
Actual length of the trailer after the above cut, will be 121-01 Metres in one Reel. 


Metres 

0.91 


Trailer of ‘Jigri Dost’ 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm) (India). 

‘Aggi Veerudu’ (Telu- 
gu) (35 mm) (B.&W.) 
(India). 


126 -48(1) 


4266-43(15) 


Vijayalakshmi Pictur- 
es, 22, Vaidyarama 
Iyer St., Madras-17. 

Sri Vittal Combines, 
G. Koil Street, Ma- 
dras-7. 


S/Shri Sunderlal Naha- 
ta & P. Dhoondy, 
Madras-17. 

Sri Vittal Combines, 
G. Koil Street, 
Madras-7. 


U 

57375 

13-10-69 

U 

57376 


With triangle mark. 


14-10-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57376-U dated 14-10-1969 issued to the film ‘Aggi Veerudu” (Telugu) 35 mm. B.&W. 
Length as in the application— 4268 -41 Metres. 


Cuts — 

1. Reel 4 — Delete the shpt where four men catch the girls by the middle of their 

legs and shake them. (Replacement of 3 -04 Mts. approved) 

2. Reel 4 — Delete the shot where six girls lie on their backs and shake their legs and 

hips upwards in a suggestive manner. (Replacement of 3 -64 Metres 
approved) 

3. Reel 4 — Delete the words by the dancer “Mundhu Maa Aakali Theeruchu”. 

4. Reel 8— Delete the shot where Prasuna and Shasanka dance and where Sasanka 

holds her in his hands and moves forward with a very near kissing ges- 
ture. (Replacement of 0 -91 metres approved) 

5. Reel 9 — Delete shots of girls jerking their busts facing each other. (Replacement 

of 1 -52 Metres approved) 

6. Reel 10 — In the dance sequence with the song beginning “Yevaro delete the 

shots where the chins of Yasovardana and Prasuna come close together 
and they hug each other. (Replacement of 1 -05 Metres approved) 

7. Reel 11— In the dream sequence of Padmavati, delete the shots where the Prince is 

lying on her side, while she is on the pedestal. (Replacement of 2 -74 
Metres approved) 

8. Reel 12 — Delete the dialogue of Hemaa addressed to the disciples of the Mantrika 

“Mee Ishtam Occhinatlu Chedurugani” 


Metre? 

3-04 

3-64 

0-60 

0-91 
1 -52 

1 -98 

2-74 

0-45 


Total cuts .. .. 14-88 


Actual length of the film after the cuts and replacements will be 4266 -43 Metres in 1 5 Reels. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 


[Part III — Sec. 4 


M/5747 


‘Panappeigal’ (Tamil) 3992 -31(17) Viswasanthi Pic- Viswasanthi Pic- 57377 With 

(35 mm.) (B & W.) tures, Usman Rd„ tures, Usman Rd., 

(India.; Madras-17. Madras-17. 15-10-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57377-U dated 15th October 1969 — issued to the film ‘Panappeigal’ (Tamil). 

Length as in the application. — 3995 -69 Metres. 


57377 With triangle mark. 


Cuts — 

1. Reel 3 — Reduce the duration of the shots where Neela is hugged by Venukanth 

when she wears white slacks and jacket 

2. Reel 4 — Delete the shots in the dance performed in the hotel, of bust shaking by 

one girl, and later by six girls in three pairs shaking 

3. Reel 5 — Delete the dialogue where the leader of the gang gives orders to 

001, 002, 003, 004 and 005 to burn the huts, destroy railways, incite 
workmen, circulate fake currency notes and kill the police personnel, 
with a view to create unrest in the country. (Sound only) 

4. Reel 6- -Delete the shots in the dance in the tower where the girl shakes her bottom 

and also the shot where the male in white pants crossesjhis legs with the 
female shaking her bottom „. 

5. Reel 8 — Delete the shots showing Neela and Venukanth in near kiss, with chins 

together, and back pressing of the bottoms of the hero and heroine 

6. Reel 12 — Delete the shot in the dance where the person dressed as a Sheik, shakes his 

bottom when he is back to back with the girl dressed in frock 


Metres 

0-75 



Total cuts 

Actual length of the film after cuts will be 3992 -31 Metres in 17 Reels. 

3-31 


M/5760 

‘Kerala Dinesh Beedi’ 
(Malayalam) 
(Eastmancolour) 

(35 mm.) (India). 

42 -67(1) 

Film Line Corpora- 
tion, Trivandrum. 

Film Line Corpora- 
tion, Trivandrum. 

U 

57378 

16-10-69 

— 

M/5755 

‘Gandhiyadikal Kattiya 
Vazhiyil’ (Tamil) 

300 -00(1) 

Institute of Film 

Technology, Madras. 

Institute of Film 

Technology, Madras. - 

5V379 

— 


(35 mm.) (B & W.) 

(India). 

M/5754 ‘Mayor Muttanna’ 4760-37(18) Dwaraka 


16-10-69 


Films, Dwaraka 


(Kannada) (35 mm.) Muthiah Mudali Muthiah Mudali 

(B & W.) (India). St., Madras-5. St., Madras-5. 16-10-69 

U 

M/5750 ‘VeeravaaP (Tamil) 4397-95(17) Siva Preethi Pic- Siva Preethi Pic- 57381 With triangle mark. 

(35 mm.) (B&W.) tures, 21, Arcot tures, 21, Arcot 

(India). Mudali St., Madras-17. Mudali St., Madras-17, 17-10-69 


(35 mm.) (B&W.) 
(India). 


Endorsement on certificate No. 57381-U dated 17th October 1969 issued to ‘VeeravaaP (Tamil) (35mm.) (B & W.) 
Length as in the application. — 4397 -95 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 7 — Delete the dialogue of Vathsala to her lover ‘Thottu Parthaya’. (Sound 

only). — 

2. Reel 7 — Delete the dialogues of Madhavi ‘Vayaru irukkira nilayai partha moonu ore 

vakile vandhudum pola irukke’. (Sound only). — 

3. Reel 10 — Delete the dialogues of Vathsala ‘Enakke Katti anaikka thondruithe, pinne 

avar summa vuduvara’. (Sound only.) — 

Actual length of the film therefore remains the same, namely 4397 -95 Metres in 17 Reels. 


M/5751 ‘Future is under Con- 
trol’ (English) 

(16 mm) (Colour) (U.K.) 


152 -40(1) Bharat Electronics Ferranti Ltd., 
Ltd., Macli as. U.K. 


17-10-69 


M/5752 ‘The Digiturn Revo- 
lution. (English) 

(16 mm) (Colour) (U.K.) 


121 -92(1) 


17-10-69 


M/5753 ‘The Ferranti Way’ 

(English) (16 mm) 
(Colour) (U.K.) 

M/5763 Trailer of ‘VeeravaaP 

(Tamil) (35 mm) 
(B & W.) (India). 


91 -44(1) Do. Do. 57384 

17-10-69 

U 

91 -44(1) Siva Preethi Pictures, Siva Preethi Pic- 57385 

21, Arcot Mudali tures, 21, Arcot 

St., Madras-17. Mudali St., Madras-17. 18-10-69 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1753 


Part III— Sec. 4] 

fc - 

1 2 3 


4 


5 6 7 


M/5759 


M/5719 


‘Sepoy Chmmah’ 4796 -32(17) Suresh Movies, Suresh Movies, 57386 With triangle mark 

(Telugu) (Partly 2 & 3, Arcot Rd„ 2 & 3, Arcot Rd„ 

coloured) (35 mm) Madras-26. Madras-26. 18-10-69 

(India.) 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57386-U dated 18-10-69 issued to the film ‘Sepoy Chinniah’ (Telugu) (Parity coloured). 
Length as in the application. — 4796 -32 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

Reel 4 — (a) Delete the reference to Bharathi “My name is Dokka Seetbamma”; (ii) 

Delete the reference by Kannamma to Chinniah “Nameetha padi”. (Sound only). — 

Actual length of the film is therefore the same, 4796 -32 Metres in 17 Reels. 

Black & White portion of the picture is 3845 -95 Metres, and Colour portion of the picture is 950 -37 Metres (Total 
4796 -32 Metres in 17 Reels). 

U 

‘Nam Naadu’ (Tamil) 5119-49(20) Vijaya International, Shri B. Nagi Reddi, 57387 With triangle mark. 

(35 mm) (East- Arcot Rd., Madras-26 Vijaya International, 

mancolour) (India). Madras-26. 18-10-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 57387-U dated 18th October 1969 issued to the film ‘Nam Naadu’ (Tamil) (35 mm.) 
(Eastmancolour). 

Length as in the application. — 5124 -59 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 1 — Delete the shots showing the strangling of Velayuthan by the three sticks. 2 -43 

2. Reel 12 — Delete the reference to “20 years experience”. (Sound only — replace- 
ment approved) — 

3. Reel 14 — Reduce the duration of the shots showing the bleeding when Dorai is beaten 

on his head. 1-52 

4. Reel 17 — Delete the shots showing the hip swinging when the girls dance in a circle 

with the guests seated on the table. 1-21 


Total cuts .. .. 5-16 


Actual length of the film after the cuts is 5119 -49 Metres in 20 Reels. 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 25 th October, 1969. 


B/57975 


B/56643 


“Nandini” (Marathi) 
(35 mm.) (India). 


“Ski On The Wild 

Side” (Wide- 
screen) (Col.) 

(English) (35mm.) 

(U.S.A.). 


BOMBAY 


3779-52(13) B. N. Kulkarni, 

2/23 Khandake 

Bldg. N. C. Kelkar 
Rd., Dadar, Bombay- 
28. 

2847 -75(12) Metro Goldwyn- 

Mayer India Ltd., 

Metro House, M.G. 
Road,, Bombay-1. 


U 

B. N. Kulkarni, 59328 

Bombay-28. 

20-10-69 


U 

A Warren Miller 59329 With triangle mark. 

Production(U.S.A.). 

21-10-69 


Endorsement 


Original length — 2906 -57m. 

Reel 9 (5A) — Delete the words “A Russian super service gas station”, and the shot showing of 
filling up of dirty water in the radiator. 

Delete the following commentary with reference to Russian villages and the scene of the ' 
rugged street:— “There are thousands of villages just like this one in Russia. You will 
find no electricity here. . . .no television. Just an occasional crank telephone.” 

Delete the satirical remakrs “The people here work very, very hard” and the shot showing 
Russian woman driving a single cow. 

Remove the reference to ‘Russian Hilton’ and the words “There is no slope maintenance 

here No trees cut down No rocks removed No snow packed 

Russian double chairlift” and the shot of a man sitting inside the rope-way car and another 
one hanging below. 

Delete the picturization and the following words: — “This is the Russian Ski Patrol 

Next year they get skis”. 

Delete the following underlined narration : — “But their technique is about five years behin d 
the rest of the skiing world. The reason for that is all the Russians have learned their 
s kiing from motion pictures . In the west it takes five years to produce a film, exhibit it, 
’and finally export it back to Russia.” 

Delete the sentences “In between each event they would transfer the bindings from one i 
pair of skis to the next.” “Who cares? This guy’s mother probably cares”. “And joined I 
Dr. Zhivago”. j 


58 -82m. 


1754 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


Delete the words “Marshal Tito was there He wore an Italian hat, a French over- 

coat, was using a German camera with Japanese lenses and English film which he bought 

with American money”. “And these are the Yugoslavians Where twenty five cents 

an hour is a very high wage.” 

Total length of deletions — 58 -82m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 2847 -75m. 

U 

B/57643 “The Learning Tree” 2917-53(12) Warner Bros. Seven Gordon Parks, 59330 With triangle mark. 

(Panavision) (Col.) Arts (F.E.) Inc. Eros (U.S.A.). — 

(English). Bldg. Churchgate, 21-10-69 

Bombay- 1. 

Endorsement : 

Original length : 2931m. 

Reel IV— Delete the views of a woman lying without clothes with a man across a bed while the maid-servant holds the 
door ajar. — 13 -47m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : — 2917 -53m. 

U 

B/57792 Trailer of “The Learn- 103 -84(1) Warner Bros. Seven Gordon Parks, 59331 With triangle mark 

ing Tree” (Col.) Arts (F.E.) Inc. Eros (U.S.A.). 

(English) (35 mm) Bldg. Churchgate, 21-10-69 

(USA), j Bombay-1. 


Endorsement : 

Original length : 109-42m. 

Delete the shot showing a woman lying without clothes with a man across a bed while the maid-servant holds the 
door ajar.— 5 -58m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : — 103 -84m. 


B/57930 “Swastha Danton Ka 

Rahasya” (Colour) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57931 “Stop Bad Breath” 

(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 

£0/57929 “Danton Ki Suraksha” 

(Colour) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 

B/57933-36 “Colgate Danton Ka 

Sahayak” (Colour) 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/58078-79 “Settle For Mettle” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58063-70 “Nice To Be Near” 
(Trioscope) (Colour) 
(35mm) (India). 


B/58071-77 “A Touch of Luxury” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/57979 “Mistair” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35mm) (India). 


0/57980 


“Things Go Better” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/57981 


“A Bottle of Fun” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 


U 

30-00(1) Zul Vellani, 2/45, Zul Vellani, Bombay- 59332 
Tardeo Air Condition 34. 


30-00(1) 

Market, Tardeo Main 

Road, Bombay-34. 

Do. Do. 

21-10-69 

U 

59333 


30-00(1) 

Do. Do. 

21-10-69 

U 

59334 


30-00(1) 

Do. Do. 

21-10-69 

U 

59335 

Valid for Hindi, 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
Bengali versions 

Valid for English 
& Hindi versions. 

Valid for English, 
Hindi Bengali, Ta- 
mil, Telugu, Kan- 
nada & Malayalam 
versions. 

Valid for English, 
Hindi, Bengali, Ta- 
mil, Telugu, Kan- 
nada & Malayalam 
versions. 

29 -87(1) 

Trio Films, Jyoti Stu- Trio Films, Bombay-7, 
dies, Kennedy Bridge, 

Bombay-7. 

Do. Do. 

21-10-69 

U 

59336 

29 -87(1) 

21-10-69 

U 

59337 

29 -87(1) 

Do. Do. 

21-10-69 

U 

59338 

30-48(1) 

Durga Khote Produc- Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, India House, tions, Bombay-1. 

First floor, Fort St. 

Bombay- 1. 

Do. Do. 

21-10-69 

U 

59339 

29 -87(1) 

21-10-69 

U 

59340 


29 -87(1) 

Do. Do. 

21-10-69 

U 

59341 




21-10-69 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KAETIKA 2, 1892) 1755 


— -- - ■ 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 



u 

B/58084 “Sukhi ICisan” (Col.) 224-64(2) Ama Private Ltd. Ama Private Ltd. 59342 

(Hindi) (16 mm) Canada Bldg. Hornby Bombay-1. 

(India); Rd. Dr. D.N. Rd. 21-10-69 

Bombay- 1. 


B/57966-67 “Your Choice (Col.) 

(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/57969 

“Kohinoor Kala Dant 
Manjan” (Colour) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57968 

“Lambe Ghane Bal” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

B/57970 

“Tazgi Aur Mauj” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

B/57803 

Trailer of “Alfred The 
Great” (Cinema- 

scope) (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) (U.S.A. ). 

B/58083 

“The Dynamics of The 
Circle” (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


U 

30 -48(1) H. H, Jagwani, Adver- H. H. Jagwani, Adver- 59343 

tising Films, Jyoti rising Films, Bom- 

Studios Compound, bay-7. 21-10-69 

Kennedy Bridge, 

Bombay-7. 

U 

30-48(1) Do. Do. 59344 


21-10-69 

U 

30.48(1) Do. Do. 59345 


21-10-69 

U 

30 -48(1) Do. Do. 59346 


21-10-69 

U 

89-00(1) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Ma- 59347 

India Ltd. Metro yer, (U.S.A.). 

House, M.G. Road 22-10-69 

Bombay-1. 

U 

153 -61(1) National Education A Me Graw Hill Book 59348 

Information Films Co. (U.S.A.). 

Ltd. National House, 22-10-69 

Tulloch Road Bom- 
bay-1. 


U 


B/58082 

“The Meaning of 
Area” (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

153 -61(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59349 

22-10-69 

U 


B/58080 

“American On The 
Moon” (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

90-00(1) 

Do. 

Castle Films, (U.S.A.). 59350 

22-10-69 

U 


B/57774 

“Polar Pests” (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

90 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59351 

22-10-69 



u 

B/58093-94 “Mahitichitra No. 249 -94(1) Director of Informa- Director of Informa- 59352 Valid for Gujarati, 

113” (35 mm) (India). tion. Govt, of Guja- tion. Govt, of Guja- & Hindi versions. 

rat, Sachivalya, rat, Sachivalya, 22-10-69 
Ahmedabad-15. Ahmedabad-1 5. 


B/58085 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1098” (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57816 

Trailer of “Footprints 
On The Moon Apollo 
11” (Widescreen) 

(Col) (English) 

(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

B/58086 

“Happy Wedding” 

(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/57632 

“Another Kick” (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.S.R.). 

B/57932 

“Oru Rahasyam” 

(Colour) (Tamil) 

(35 mm) (India). 


U 

167-00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 59353 Valid for 14 ver- 

of India. 24, Peddar of India, Bombay. sions. 

Road, Bombay. 22-10-69 

U 

65 -83(1) 20th Century Fox Barry Coe, (U.S.A.). 59354 — 

Corp. (I) Pvt. Ltd. 

Metro, House, M.G. 23-10-69 

Road Bombay. 

U 

92 -05(1) > Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 59355 Valid for 14 ver- 

of India 24, Peddar of India, Bombay. sions. 

Road, Bombay. 23-10-69 

U 

1045(9) U.S.S.R. Consulate Lenfilm Studio, (U.S.- 59356 — 

General, 42, Nepean S.R.). 

Sea Road, Bombay. 23-10-69 

U 

30-00(1) Zul Vellani, 2/45, Tar- Zul Vellani, Bom- 59357 — 

deo Air Conditioned bay-34. 

Market, Tardeo Main 23-10-69 

Road, Bombay-34. 


M299GI/70— 9 



1756 


[Part III — Sec. 4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 7 


B/57937-40 “Arogya Margan” 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/57242 “Piya Ka Ghar” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


30-00(1) Zul Vallani, 2/45, Tar- Zul Valiant, Bom- 
deo Air Conditioned bay-34. 

Market, Tardeo Ma n 
Road, Bombay-34. 

1484 -43(6) Film Institute of India, Film Institute of India, 
Law College Road, Poona-4. 

Poona-4. 


U 

59358 Valid for Tamil, 

Telugu, Kannada & 

23-10-69 Malayalam ver- 
sions. 

U 

59359 With triangle mark. 


24-10-69 


Endorsement 

Original length : 1489 m. 

Reel II— Delete Bhabhi’s underlined words as spoken to her brother-in-law in the presence of his bride “Palang purana 
hai, Awaz karta hai, zara dhyan se”. — 4 -57m. 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 1484 -43m. 


B/57628 

‘Aaiche Antahkaran” 
(Mother’s Heart) 

(Marathi) (16 mm) 
(U.S.S.R.). 

1122(10) 

U.S.S.R. Consulate 
General, 42 Nepean 
Sea Road, Bombay. 

Gorky Film Studio, 
(U.S.S.R.). 

U 

59360 — 



25-10-69 

B/57903 

’Beti” (Col.) (Hindus- 
tani) (35 mm) (India). 

4367 -14(17) 

K.P.S. Films, 3/6th Air 
Conditioned Market, 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 

K.P.S. Films, Bom- 
bay-34. 

U 

59361 



25-10-69 

B/57978 

Trailer of “Apna 
Khoon Apna Dusb- 
man" (Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

85-34(1) 

Rainbow Films, 139 
Famous Cine Bldg. 
Mahalaxmi, Hains, 
Road, Bombay-11. 

Rainbow Films, Bom- 
bay-11. 

U 

59362 — 



25-10-69 

B/58087 

■Genteel Care” (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 

29 -88(1) 

Santos Film Corpora- 
tion, Havbai Mansion 
3rd floor 14, Shahid 
Bhagatsing Rd. Opp. 
Old Custom House, 
Bombay-1. 

Santos Film Corpora- 
tion, Bombay-1. 

U 

59363 — 

25-10-69 


ENDORSEMENTS 

VERSIONS 

B/55628 

Film : “Behind The Scenes” (English). 

U-57057 dt. 23-4-69 

The certificate is valid also for the Bengali version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 
The certificate was endorsed on 22nd October 1969. 


CORRECTION 

B/57846 

Film : “The Small Man” (Col.) (English). 

U-59291 dt. 8-10-69 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 30 -48 metres instead of 29 -87 metres. 

The certificate was endorsed on 22nd October 1969. 

B/42437 

Film : “View & Teach-Bringing in the Outside World” (English) (16 mm). 

U-43787 dt. 20-1-65 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 -4 metres. The number 
of reels remains unaffected at two. 

The certificate was endorsed on 25th October 1969. 

B/42438 

Film : “View & Teach-Tunes of Eng. Speech” 

U-43788 dt. 20-1-65 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 -4 metres. The number 
of reels remains unaffected at two. 

The certificate was endorsed on 25th October 1969. 




Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 




CALCUTTA 


C/6411 

Flash Film No. 1 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 

30-48(1) 

Kalakunj, 43, Bepin 
Behari Ganguly 

Street, Calcutta-12. 

Kalakunj, 43, Bepin 
Behari Ganguly 

Street, Calcutta-12. 

C/6298 

Les Morutiers (Colour) 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 

189(1) 

Cultural Counsellor, 
French Embassy, 

New Delhi. 

Regie Francaise Du 
Cinema, France. 

C/6299 

Derriere La Fenetre 
(Colour) (French) 

(16 mm) (France). 

185(1) 

Do. 

Les Films Armorial, 
France. 

C/6300 

Pasterale Du XXeme 
Siecie (Col.) (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 

133(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

C/6301 

Les Annees 25 (Col.) 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 

102(1) 

Do. 

Cythere Films, 

France. 




MADRAS 


M/5749 

‘Nadhi’ (Malayalam) 
(Eastmancolour) (35 
mm) (India). 

3673-14(15) 

Supriya Pictures, 2, 
Maharaja Surya Rao 
Road, Madras-18. 

Supriya Pictures, 2, 
Maharaja Surya Rao 
Road, Madras-18. 


M/5756 


‘Chaduranga’ (Kan- 4747-26(17) Shri N. G. Ahmed, Mahalakshmi Films, 


nada) (35 mm) 
(B.&W.) (India). 


No. 3, Hary’s Road, No. 3, Hary’s Road, 

Bangalore-1. Bangalore-1. 


25-10-69 

U 

58437 

25-10-69 

U 

58438 

25-10-69 

U 

58439 

25-10-69 

U 

58440 
25-10-69 


21-10-69 

U 

57389 With triangle mark. 
24-10-69 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 57389-U, dated 24-10-69 issued to the film ‘Chaduranga’ (Kannada) 35 mm.. 
Length as in the application .— 4747 -26 metres. 


1. Reel 7— Delete the following shots.’— (a) Hip swinging by the two girls in 
black dress with brassier (Approved replacement 2 -74) 

(6) The dancing girl standing on the top of the table and gradually 
widening both her legs apart. (Approved replacement 1 -52) 

Total cuts .... 


Metres 

2-74 

1-52 

4-26 


Actual length of the film, therefore, remains the same, namely 4747 -26 metres in 17 Reels. 

Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week-ending 

1 November 1969. 

BOMBAY 


B/58103 “Lacto Calamine” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/57613 “Salah” (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 


B/57469 “Wall Less Prison” 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 


30-48(1) Varsha Films Com- Anand, Bombay-1. 59364 

mercial, Daver House, — 

199, D.N. Road, 27-10-69 

Bombay-1 . 

U 

25 -90(1) National Advertising Jyoti G. Thakur, 59365 

Service Pvt. Ltd., 47, Lax.-ni Insurance 

National House, Tul- Bldg., Sir P.M. Road, 29-1 0-69 
loch Road, Bombay. Bombay- 1. 

U 

288 -04(1) Dhirendra Pandey, Sir Bhagwati Saran 59366 

Films Officer, Singh, Director of 

Director of Infbrma- Information, Govt. 29-10-69 
tion. Govt. ofU.P., of U.P., Lucknow: 

Lucknow. 


B/58021 “Hie Convection Of 

Water” (Colour) (Si- 
lent) (8 mm) (U.K.). 

B/58008 “Cell Division” (Silent) ' 

(8 mmMU.K.). 


B/57626 “Maa Di Wafadari” 
(Mother’s Devotion) 
(Punjabi) (16 mm) 
(U.S.S.R.). 


15-85(1) Macmillan & Co. Ltd., ICEM London, U.K. 
276, Hornby Road, 

Bombay. 

10-06(1) Do. Do. 


968(1) U.S.S.R. Consulate Gorky Film Studio, 
General, 42, Nepean U.S.S.R. 

Sea Road, Bombay. 


29-10-69 

U 

59368 

29-10-69 

U 

59369 
29-10-69 



i7$8 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8/58109 

Trailer of “African 
Safari’’ (Colour) 

67 -66(1) 

Universal Pictures 

India Pvt. Ltd., Metro 
House, M.0. Road, 
Bombay. 

Ronald E. Shanin, 
U.S.A. 

U 

59370 

With triangle mark. 


(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


29-10-69 



Endorsement — ■ 







Original length : 68 

•88 rn. 






Delete the opening close shots showing African women with bare breasts coming along 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be.— (si ■ 66 m. 

in a line.-— 1 -22 m. 

B/58119 

“Diamonds And Glass” 
(Colour) (English) 

219(2) 

LPE Aiyars Pvt, Ltd., 
7th Floor, Nirmal, 

Industrial Diamond In- 
formation Bureau, 
U.K. 

U 

59371 



(16 mm) (U.K.). 


Nariman Point, 

Bombay-1. 

29-10-69 


B/58123 

“Diamonds And The 
Stone Industry” (Co- 

1 32(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59372 

— 


lour) (English) (16 
mm) (U.K.). 




29-10-69 


B/58122 

“Diamonds In Metal 
Working” (Colour) 

121(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59373 

— 


(English) (16 n.m) 
(U.K.). 




29-10-69 


B/57985 

“Heat Distribution In 
The Spectrum Of A 

13-11(1) 

Macmillan & Co. Ltd., 
276, Hornby Road, 
Bombay. 

ICEM, London, U.K. 

U 

59374 

— 


Carbon Arc” (Silent) 
(Colour) (8 mm) 

(U.K.). 



29-10-69 


B/58120 

“Diamonds And Cera- 
mics” (Colour) (Eng- 

154(2) 

LPE Aiyars Pvt. Ltd., 
7th Floor, Nirmal, 
Nariman Point, 

Bombay- 1. 

Industrial Diamond In- 
formation Bureau, 
U.K. 

U 

59375 



lish) (16 mrr) (U.K.). 


29-10-69 


B/58121 

“Diamond And Con- 
crete” (Colour) 

121(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59376 

— 


(English) (16 mm) 
(U.K.). 




29-10-69 


B/58095 — 
100 

“Meet The Champion” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 

30 00(1) 

Kalp, B-l , Block No. 2, 
Samruddhi Housing 
Society, Bhavani- 
sbankar Road Cross 
Lane, Dadar,^jt>om- 
bay-28. 

Kalp, Bombay-28, 

U 

59377 

Valid for English, 
Hindi, Bengali, 

< Tamil, Telugu & 
Malayalam ver- 
sions. 


(India). 



29-10-69 

B/58127 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1099” (35 mm) 

192 -93(1) 

Filins Division, Govt, 
of India, 24, Peddar 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay. 

V 

59378 

Valid for 14 ver- 
sions. 


(India;. 


Road, Bombay. 

29-10-69 

B/58128 

“Munna” (Partly in 
Colour) (Hindi) (35 

1310-64(5) 

Children’s Film So- 
ciety, Hingorani 

House, Dr. Annie 
Besant Road, Worli, 
Bombay-18. 

Children’s Film So- 
ciety, Bombay-18. 

U 

59379 

— 


mm) (India). 


30-10-69 


B/58108 

“African Safari” (Co- 
lour ) ( English ) 

2554-22(11) 

Universal Pictures 

India P, Ltd., Metro 

Ronald E. Shanin, 
U.S.A. 

U 

59380 

— 


(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 


House, M.G. Road, 
Bombay-1. 

30-10-69 


B/57977 

“Moon Zero Two” 
(Colour) (English) 

2381 -70(6) 

Warner Bros. Seven 
Arts (F.E.) Inc. Eros 
Bldg., Churchgate, 
Bombay. 

Michael Carreras, 

London. 

U 

59381 

— 


(35 mm) (London). 


30-10-69 


B/57904 

Trailer of “The Rain 
People” ( Colour ) 

101 -50(1) 

Do. 

Ron Colby, Bart Pat- 
ton, U.S.A. 

U 

59382 

— 


(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 




30-10-69 


B/58130 

“Help Generates Self- 
help” (English) (35 

.303 -28(1) 

T. Janakiram, Summer 
Garden, Madras-24. 

T. Jankiram, Madras-24. 

U 

59383 

— 


(35 mm) (India). 




1-11-69 



#arst III— Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1 892) 1739 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

B/58104 

“The Soap With A 
Difference” (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 

30 *48(1) 

Visual Aid Publicity 
India, 111, M.G. 
Road, Bombay-1. 

United Film Makers, 
311-12, Himalaya 
House, Palton Road, 
Bombay. 

U 

59384 

— 



1-11-69 

U 

59385 


B/57973 

“Of All The Lovely 
Hues Imaginable” 
(Colour) (English & 
Hindi) (35 mm). 

“T.W.A. Daily Flights 
Around The World” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

30*00(1) 

Indra Bijlani, United 
Film Makers, 311-12, 
Himalaya House, 
Palton Road, Bom- 
bay-1. 

Grant Advertising 

India, Lotus House, 
Marine Lines, Bom- 
bay-1. 

Indra Bijlani, United 
Film Makers, Bom- 
bay-1. 

Wells Rich Greene 
Inc., U.S.A. 

— 

B/58105 

30*48(1) 

1-11-69 

U 

59386 




1-11-69 

U 

59387 


B/58149 

“Take A Sip Of The 
Sun” (Colour) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) (India). J 

29 *87(1) 

Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, India House, 
First floor, Fort 
Street, Bombay-1. 

Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, Bombay-1. 

— 



1-11-69 

U 

59388 


B/58125 

“Film Star Elke Som- 
mer” (Colour) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) (India)-! 

27*43(1) 

Santos Film Corpora- 
tion, Havabai Man- 
sion, 3rd floor, 14, 
Shahid Bhagatsingh 
Road, Opp. Old Cus- 
tom House, Bombay- 
1 . 

Santos Film Corpora- 
tion, Bombay-1. 

— 



1-11-69 


jB/58137 

“Hanuman Chalisa” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

3895 -93(14) 

Basant Pictures, 136, 
Chamarbagh Road, 
Parel, Bombay-12. 

Basant Pictures, 

Bombay-12. 

U 

59389 

— 



1-11-69 


B/57947 

“Operation St. Peter” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (Italy). 

2470*56(12) 

Paramount Films of 
India Ltd., Hague 
Bldg., Sprott Road, 
Bombay-1. 

Tuti Vasile, Italy, 

59390 

— ■ 




1-11-69 

U 

59391 


B/57948 

Trailer of “Operation 
St. Peter” (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(Italy). 

“Starts” (Silent (8 mm) 
(U.K.). 

59 -44(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

— 

B/58043 

10*06(1) 

Macmillan & Co. Ltd., 
276, Hornby Road, 
Bombay. 

ICEM London, U.K. 

1-11-69 

U 

59392 





1-11-69 


B/57997 

“Critical Size” (Colour) 
(Silent) (8 mm) 

(U.K.). 

9-45(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59393 

— 





1-11-69 


B/58016 

“Recreational Diving” 
(Silent) (8 mm) 

(U.K.). 

14 -33(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59394 






1-11-69 


B/58017 

“Basic Skills Of Sur- 
vival Swimming” 
(Silent) (8 mm) 

(U.K.). 

15 *54(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59395 

— 





1-11-69 


B/58039 

“Survival Swimming- 
Use Of Clothes” 
(Silent) (8 mm) 

(U.K.). 

17 *98(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59396 

— 





1-11-69 


B/58009 

“Division Of The 
DNA Molecule” 

(Silent) (8 mm) 

(U.K.). 

7 -62(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

f 59397 

ri-11-69 

— 

B/57998 

“Chain Reaction” 

(Silent) (Colour) (8 
mm) (U.K.). 

6*71(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

u 

59398 

— 





1-11-69 


B/58032 

“Controlled Chain” 
(Silent) (Colour), (8 
mm) (U.K.). 

3 -90(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59399 

— 





1-11-69 



1760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 1 , 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 









1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


B/58055 

“Aston's Mass Spec- 
trograph” (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.). 

9 -75(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59400 

1-11-69 

U 

59401 

1-11-69 

A 

— 

B/57989 

“The Plain Header” 
(Silent) (8 mm) 

(U.K.). 

10 -67(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

" 

B/57392 

“Project X” (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

2659 -38(10) 

Paramount Films of 
India Ltd., Hague 
Bldg., Sprott Road, 
Bombay. 

William Castle 
(U.S.A.). 

2625 

31-10-69 



ENDORSEMENTS 


ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 

B/57482 

Film — “Dongarachi Maina” (Marathi) 

U-58057 dt. 14-8-69. 

Added Metres 

Reel //—Shot showing show by Monkeys 39-62 

Reel ///—Shot showing show by Bear 60-96 

Length of additions 100 "58 

Previous length certified 3843 -00 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be— 3943 -58 m. 


CORRECTIONS 


B/42436 

Film—“V iew & Teach-Acting from Pictur” 

U-Cert. No. 43786, dt. 20th Jan., 1965. 

The lengthfof theffilmfon the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152.4 metres. The number of 
reels remains unaffected at two. 

The certificate was endorsed on 28th October 1969. 

B/ 54741 

Film — “Izzat” (Hindi) (Colour). 

U-Cert. No. 55757, dt. 3-12-68. 

The correct length on the face of the certificate may be read as 3932-38 metres instead of 3962.38 metres. 

The certificate was endorsed on 29th October 1969. 

B/42439 

Film— ‘"View & Teach-Rhythms of English Speech” (English). 

U-Cert. No. 43789, dt. 20-1-65. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152-4 metres. 

The certificate was endorsed on 30th October 1969. 

B/48895. 

Film — “View & Teach No. 15-What’s Going To Happen ?” (English). 

U-Cert. No., dt. 22-2-67. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 1 70 metres instead of 1 67 ■ 64 metres. 

The certificate was endorsed on 30th October 1969. 

B/48899. 

Film — “View & Teach-No. 19-Learning In Groups” (English). 

U-Cert. No. 49718, dt. 2-2-67. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 148 metres instead of 167.64 metres. 

The certificate was endorsed on 30th October 1969. 

B/48903. 

Film— “View & Teach-No. 23-Voiced” (English). 

U-Cert. No. 49722 dt. 2-2-67. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 176 metres instead of 167-64 metres. 

The certificate was endorsed on 1st. November 1969. 

B/48904 

Film— “View & Teach-The Unstreasse Vowels” (English). 

LT-Cert. No. 49737, dt. 6-2-67. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 170 metres instead of 167-64 metres. 

The certificate was endorsed on 1st November 1969. 


Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1761 


REFUSED CERTIFICATES 


B/56547 


B/56548 

B/55529 


B/55530 

B/57110 


B/57111 

B/57511 


B/57512 


The Bastard (Col.). (En- 2534-71(6) Warner Bros. Seven Ultrafilm, (U. S. A.) Refused on 27-10-69 by R. C 
glish) (35mm) (U. S.A) Arts (F. E.) Inc. Eros 

Bldg. (Churchgate, 

Bombay. 

“Trl. of the Bastard”. 72-54(1) Do. Do. Do. 

‘‘The Spilt” (Panavision) 2505-76(11) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Irwin Winkler & Robert Refused on 27-10-69 by R. C. 
(Col.) (Eng.) (35mm) I. Ltd. Metro House, Charliff, (U. S. A.) 

(U. S. A.) M. G. Road. Bombay 

“Trl. of The Spilt” 67 -36(1) Do. Do. Do. 

“Young Dillenger” (Eng- 2792-88 (11) 20 Century-Fox Corpn, Alfreel W. Limbalist, Refused on 20-10-69 by R. C. 


lish) (35mm) (U.S.A.) 


I. P. Ltd. Metro Hou- 
se, M. G. Rd., Bomb- 
bay-1. 


(U. S. A.) 


Trl. of Young Dill- 58-82 (1) Do. Do. Do. 

engery” 

Anyone Can Play 2420-42(11) Paramount Films of Fausto Saracen, (Italy) Refused on 28-10-69 by E. C. 
(Col.) (Eng.) (35mm). India Ltd. Hague Bldg. 

(Italy). Spott Rd., Bombay. 

“Trl. of Anyone Can 46-00(1) Do. Do. Do. 

Pljty” CALCUTTA 


C/6387 Cattle Ranch (Col.) 243-84(1) 
(English) (16mm) 

(Canada) 


Secretary, Bengal So- British Columbia Dept. 58441 

dal Service League, of Education, Canada. 

1/6, Raja Dinendra 27-10-69 

Street, Cal-9. 


C/6388 This Fortunate Land 487-68(1) 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm) (Canada.) 


K VOV Canada. 


27-10-69 


C/6410 Family Planning (Col.) 128-62(1) 
(Bengali) (16mm) 

U. S.A. 


Walt Disney, U.S.A. 


27-10-69 


C/6420 


C/6425-34 


C/6438 


Chou Dance of Bengal 512-46 (2) 
(English) (35mm) 

(India) 


The Lamp For You 30-48 (1) 
(Col.) Hindi, Bengali, 

Oriya, Assamese, Ta- 
mil, Telugu, Malaya- 
lain, Kannada, Guja- 
rati, & Marathi) 

(35mm) (India) 

Die Strasse Der Stah- 121-92(1) 
lornen Ringe (Col.) 

(English) (16mm) 

West Germany. 


Films Orientalia, 55, Bidesh Sarkar, C/O: 58444 

Gariahat Road, Cal-19. Films Orientalia, 55, 

Gariahat Road, Cal.- 27-10-69 
19. 

U 

Mandar Films, 209, Bi- Mandar Films, 209, Bi- 58445 

dhan Sarani, Cal-6. dhan Sarani, Cal.-6. — 

27-10-69 


Dr. Ing. W. Bading, August Thyssen Huette, 58446 
General Supdt ; Rou- West, Germany. ___ 

rkela Steel Plant, Hin- 30-1 0-69 

dustan Steel Ltd., 

Rourkela. 


C/6439 Only Fogs are Grey 290-00(1) 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm) West Germany 


30-10-69 


C/6440 From Slab To Wide 121-92(1) 
Strip (English) (16 
mm) West Germany. 


30-10-69 


C/6441 Paschim Banga Sarka- 304-80(1) 
rer Sangbad Chitra-2- 
October’69 (Beng) (35 
mm) (India). 


Graphic Documentaries Dept, of Information 58449 

3, S.R. Das Road, & Public Relation, 

Cal-26. Govt, of West Bengal 30-10-69 

Writers Buildings, 

Cal.-l . 


C/6351 L Excision En Pays 100(1) 
Banda (Col.) (No dia- 
logue, commentary, 
song or music) (16mm) 

France. 


Cultural Counsellor, R. Mores, France. 
French Embassy, New 
Delhi 


27-10-69 


1762 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sbc. 4 


* ■ L ' 1 " — 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 




MADRAS 

U 

57390 — 

M/5661 

‘Pananthumbu’ (Film on 666 • 90 (2) 
Fibre) (Tamil) (35 mm) 

B&W (India) 

The Madras State Pal- Om Sakthi Films, 4, Du- 
lmgur Co-optv. Fed- kkaram 3rd St., Ma- 
eration Ltd., Madras, dras-17. 


28-10-69 

M/5764 

‘Mathrudevatha" (Telugu) 4567-42(18) 
(35 mm) B&W (India) 

Poorna Art Pictures, Poorna Art Pictures, 
32, 1st St., Bharathi- 32, 1st St., Bharathi- 
nagar, Madras-17. nagar, Madras-17. 

U 

57391 With triangle mark. 


28-10-69 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 5791-U dated 28-10-69 issued to the film ‘Mathrudevatha’ (Telugu) 35 mm. B&W. 
Length as in the application — 4567-42 Metres. 


Cuts — 

1. Reel 4 — Delete the dialogue of the child (Latha) to her mother “Nuvvu Kooda 

Muddu Pettadhu ?”. (Sound only -replaced) — 

2. Reel 7 — Delete the following shots in the dance: — (a) the dancer shaking her hip 

in front violently, showing the shots below the midriffs ; (b) the 
dancer lying on her back on the table and shaking her breasts: (c) the 
dancer standing and shaking her breasts violently twice. (Replaced 
with villain’s close-ups). .. ._ ... .. 10-66 

3. Reel 14 — Delete the dialogue of the night-club owner (Mohan) to Lata— “Neel- 

anti Kannepillaluku Dabbu ivatom naaku alavate.” Sound only 
replaced) .. — 

Total cuts 10-66 


Actual length of the film after cuts and replacement will be the same namely 4567 • 42 Mts. in 1 8 Reels. 


M/5770 ‘Velliyazhcha’ (Mala- 3667-65(14) 

yalam) (35 mm) B&W 
(India) 

M/5768 ‘Puthumanai Pukuvi- 30-48(1) 

zha’ (Tamil) (35mm) 

B&W. India. 


Solar Pictures, 1 1 , Mu- Solar Pictures, 1 1 , Mu- 
rrays Gate Rd., Mad- rrays Gate Madras- 
ras-18. 18. 

Kumari Films P. Ltd., Kumari Films P. Ltd., 
7, Chitaranjan Rd., 7, Chitaranjan Rd„ 
Madras-18. Madras-18. 


U 

57392 

30-10-69 

57393 

1-11-69 


M/5771 


‘Our Younger Citizens' 40-54(1) 
(Tamil) (35mm) B&W 
(India). 


U 

Shri N. Krishnaswamy, Shri N. Krishnaswamy, 57394 

No. 6-A, Second St., No. 6-A, Second St., 

Lake Area, Madras- Lake Area, Madras- 1-11-69' 
34. 34. 


M/5769 


‘Sivandha Mann’ (Ta- 5284-31 (19) 
mil) (Eastmancolour) 

(35mm) (India) 


U 

Chithralaya Pictures (P) Chithralaya Pictures 57395 

Ltd., 39, North Boag (P) Ltd., 39, North 

Rd., Madras-17. Boag Rd., Madras-17. 1-11-69 


P.E. 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 8th November, 1969. 





BOMBA Y 

U 

59402 


B/58131 

“The World or BOAC” 
(Colour) (English) 

(16 mm) (London). 

281-33(1) 

Filmlets (P) Ltd. BOAC, New Delhi, 

E-75, North Bombay (London). 

Society Church, Road, 

Juhu, Bombay-34. 



3-11-69 

U 

59403 


B/58189 

Trailer of “Sati Sulo- 
chana” (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 

“Glaxose-D-Tatkal 
Shakti-Saathi” (Col.) 

(35 mm) (India). 

99 -06(1) 

S. A. Kapor, S. A. S. A. Kapor, Partner, 
Films, Shree Sound S.A. Films, Bombay- 
Studios, Dadar, Bom- 14. 
bay- 14. 

Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Bombay-7 
Studios, Kennedy 

Bridge, Bombay-7. 


B/58201 

29 -87(1) 

3-11-69 

U 

59404 

Valid for Marathi 
& Hindi versions. 


3-11-59 

U 

59405 

B/58-203-8 

“Glaxose-D-For Ins- 
tant Energy” (Col.) 

(35 mm) (India). 

29 -87(1) 

Do. Do. 

Valid for English, 
Hindi, Bengali, 

Tamil, Telugu & 
Malayalam versison. 



3-11-69 

U 

59406 

B/58207 

“Glaxose-D-Fauran 

Shakti Paanc Ke 
Liye” (Col.) (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

29 -87(1) 

Do. Do. 




3-11-69 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1763 


Part III — Sec. 4 ] 


B/58147 

“Painter’s Sketch-Book 
In Movies Instrumen- 
tal No. One” 

B/58129 

“Strife To Stability” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (India). 

B/58169 

“Ujle Logon Ka 
Nishaan” (Col.) 

(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

B/58160 

“Shaan Ka Nishan” 
“(Col.) (35 mm) 

(India). 

B/58170 

“Wings To The World” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm) (India). 

B/52009 

“Swastik In The Life 
Of Our Nation” 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm) (India). 

B/58150-51 

“Ujjwal Samudaay” 
(Col.) (35 mm) 

(India). 

B/58156 

“Ujla Parivar” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/58159 

“Ujle Log” (Col.) 

(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/58167 

“Ujli Shaan” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/58152-53 

“Chamakdar Mandali 
(Col.) (35 mm) 
India. 

B/58199 

“Fulbright To India” 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/58011 

“Faulty Fingers” 

(Col.) (Silent) (8 
mm) (U. K.). 

B/58047 

“Stationary Waves” 
(Col.) (Silent) (8mm) 
(U. K.). 

B/58224 

“Mahitichitra No. 

114” (Gujarat) 

(35 mm) (India). 

B/58217-18 

“Maharashtra News 
No. 209 October 
1969” (35 mm) 

(India). 

B/58219 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1100” (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/58220 

“Expression” (No 

commentary Music 
only) (35 mm) 
(India). 


u 

88-00(1) M. F. Husain, 12, M. F. Husain, Bombay- 59407 Music-No dialogue 

Souter Street, Bom- 8. or commentary. 

bay-8. 3-11-69 

U 

284-68(1) Kantilal Rathod,Akar Kantilal Rathod, Bom- 59408 

Films, Bhulabhai Insti- bay-26. 

tute, 89-B. Desai Rd. 3-11-69 

Bombay-26. 

U 

22 -00(1) F. B. Productions, F.B. Productions, Bom- 59409 

Film Centre, 68, bay-34. 

Tardeo Rd. Bombay- 3-11-69 

34. 

U 

22-00(1) Do. Do. 59410 

Valid for Hindi 

3-11-69 Oriya versions. 

U 

459-00(2) Fali Bilimoria Produc- Fali Bilimoria Produc- 59411 

tions. Film Centre, tions, Bombay-34. 

68, Tardeo Rd., 3-11-69 

Bombay-34. 

U 

237 -73(2) Ram Gabale, Neelima, Ram Gable Produc- 59412 

2072, Vijayanaggar tions, Poona-9. — 

Colony, Poona-9. 3-11-69 


22-00(1) F. B. Productions, Film F. B. Productions, 
Centre, 68, Tardeo Bombay-34. 

Rd. Bombay-34. 

22 -00(1) F. B. Productions Film F. B. Productions 
Centre 68, Tardeo Bombay-34 
Rd. Bombay-34 


22-00(1) Do. Do. 


22 -00(1) Do. Do. 


U 

59413 Valid for Gujarati, 

& Hindi versions 

4-11-69 

U 

59414 


4-11-69 

U 

59415 


4-11-69 

U 

59416 


4-11-69 

U 

22.00(1) Do. Do. 59417 Valid for Marathi, 

& Hindi versions. 

4-11-69 

U 

566 -32(2) Image India Films P. Image Inaia Films P. 59418 

Ltd. Nanabhay Man- Ltd.Bombay-1 

sion, 1st floor. Sir 5-11-69 

P. M. Rd. Bombay-1. 

U 

10-97(1) Macmillan & Co. Ltd. ICEM London, (U. K.) 59419 

276, Hornby Road, 

Bombay-. 5-11-69 

U 

19-81(1) Do. Do. 59420 


5-11-69 

257 -55(1) Director of Infor- Director of Infor- 59421 

mation. Govt, of mation, Govt, of 

Gujarat, Sachivalya, Gujarat, Sachivalya, 5-11-69 

Ahemadabad-15. Ahemadabad-15. 

304-19(1) Director of Publicity, Director of Publicity, 59422 Valid for Marathi, 

Govt, of Maharashtra, Govt of Maharashtra, — — Hindi versions. 

Sachivalya, Bombay- 32 Bombay-32. 5-11-59 


U 

160 -32(1) Film Division, Govt. Film Division, Govt. 59423 Valid for 14 

of India, 24, Peddar of India, Bombay-26. — — — versions. 

Rd. Bombay-26. 5-11-69 

U 

254 -00(1) Do. Do. 59424 


5-11-60 


299GI/70 — 10 




B/58146 

B/58136 

B/58126 

B/58223 

B'58222 

B/58010 

B/58021 

B/58640 

B/57988 

B/57987 

B/58038 

B/58044 

B/58010 

B/58022 

B/57999 

B/58039 


U 

“Black Bose” (Col.) 191 -72(2) Image India Films P. Peter Milts, (England) 59425 

(English) (16 mm) Ltd. Nanabhay Man- 

(England). sion, 1st floor, Sir 5-11-69 

P. M. Rd. Bombay-1. 

U 

“Rambhakta Hann- 3,825 -00(16) Adarshlok, Manek Adarsh B. K. Bombay- 59426 

man” (Col.) (Hindi) Chambers, Laming- 4. With triangle mark 

(35 mm) (India). ton Rd. Bombay-4. 6-1 1-69 


Endorsement — 

Original length. — 3835 mm. 

Reel VII . — Delete shots of Ravana molesting Seeta, — 10 -00m. 

Reel XIV. — Delete references to monkeys doubting the character of Seeta. — (Sound only). 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he. — 3825 -00 m. 


“Insaaf-Ka-Mandir” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

3960-88(15) Sasaram Chitra, 

7/5-Kandhari, Colo- 
ny, Chembur, Bom- 
bay-71. 

Sherbahadur Singh & 59427 

Jagdish Singh, Bom- — — 

bay-71. 6-11-69 

U 


“Wills Ki Khoobi” 
(Col.) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 

29 -87(1) 

Trio Films, Jyoti 
Studio, Kennedy Bri- 
dge, Bombay-7. 

Trio Films, Bombay-7. 59428 

6-11-69 

U 


“War Declared” (En- 
glish) (35 mm) 

(India). 

29-87(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59429 

6-11-69 

U 


“How A Virus Multi- 
plies” (Silent) (35 mm) 
mm) (U.K.). 

10 -67(1) 

Macmillan & Co. Ltd. 
276, Hornby Road, 
Bombay. 

ICEM London, (U.K.). 59430 

6-11-69 

U 


“Swimming The Front- 
crawl” (Silent) (8- 
mm) (U.K.). 

18-59(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59431 

6-11-69 


“Swimming The Ba- 
ckcrawl” (Silent) (8- 
mm) (U.K.). 

18-59(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59432 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

“Learning To Dive” 
(Silent) (8mm) 

(U.K.) 

12-19(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59433 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

“Plain And Spherical 
Waves: Diffraction 

At Obstacles” (Sil- 
ent) (Colour) (8mm) 
(U.K.) 

7-92(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59434 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

“Ripple Tank Diffra- 
action” (At An Aper- 
ture) (Silent) (Col.) 
(8mm) ((IJ.K.) 

14-33(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59435 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

“Turns” (Silent) (8m) 
(U.K.) 

20 -73(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59436 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

“Learning The Brest- 
stroke” (Silent) 

(8mm) (U.K.) 

13-11(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59437 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

“Learning The Back- 
crawl” (Silent) 

(8mm) (U.K.) 

11 -89(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59438 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

“Ripple Tank-Inter- 
ference” (Silent) 

(8mm) (U.K.) 

8-23(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59439 

6-1 1 -69 

U 

— 

“Ripple Tank-Refrac- 
tion” (Silent) (Co- 
lour) (8mm) (U.K.) 

15-24(1) 

Do. 

Do. 59440 

6-11-69 

— 




B/58037 

“Ripple Tank: Reflec- 
tion” (Silent) (Col- 
lour) (8mm) (U.K.) 

B/58050 

“Circulation of 

Blood” (Silent) 

(8mm) (U.K.) 

B/58154 

“Jagajagisuva Man- 
dali” (Kannada) 

(Colour) (35mm) 

(India) 

B/58157 

“Surya Paripalana” 
(Telugu) (Colour) 

(35mm) (India) 

B/58168 

“Surya Kanthi”(Col) 
(Timal) (35mm) 

(India) 

B/581 ai- 

es 

“Tejovanthula Kova” 
(Col.) (35mm) (India) 

B/58164 

“Ujjwal Dal” (Col.) 
(35mm) (India) 

B/58155 

“Ujjwala VashtraDh 
arikal” (Col.) (Mala- 
yalam) (35mm) 

(India) 

B/58158 

“Kathiroli Manda- 
1am” (Col.) (Tamil) 
(35mm) (India) 

B/58216 

“Did You Ever Taste 
Laughter” (Col.) 

(English) (35mm) 

(India) 

B/58213 

“Iru Vazhiyil Seyal- 
padum Dequadin” 
(Tamil) (35mm) 

(India) 

B/58214 

“Du Bhabe Kajkare 
Dequadin” (Bengali) 
(35mm) (Indian) 

B/57691 

“Van Gogh” (English) 
(16mm) (U.K.) 

B/57721 

“Management Techni- 
ques (Film No. 2) 
Control By Budget- 
ing”(EngIish) (16mm) 
(U.K.) 

B/57722 

“Management Techni- 
ques (Film No. 3) 
Producing To A 
Plan” (English) 

(16mm) (U.K.) 

B/57720 

“Management Tech- 
niques (Film No. 1) 
Seeing The Future 
(English)]' (16mm) 
(UK.) 


u 


14-02(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

59441 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

11 -59(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

59442 

6-11-69 

U 

— 

22 -8(1) 

F. B. Productions, 

F. B. Productions, 

59443 


Film Centre, 68, 
Tardeo Rd. Bom- 
bay-34, 

Bombay-34. 

7-11-69 

U 


22-8(1) 

22 -8(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

59444 

7-11-69 

U 

59445 

— 


Do. 

Do. 

7-11-69 

U 


22-8(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

59446 

7-11-69 

U 

Valid for Telugu 
& Tamil versions. 

22 -00(1) 

Do. 

F.B. Productions, 

Do. 

F. B. Productions, 

59447 

7-11-69 

U 

Valid for Bengali, 
Assamese & Oriya 
versions. 

22-8(1) 

Film Centre, 68, 
Tardeo Rd. Tardeo 
Rd. Bombay-34. 

Bombay-34. 

59448 

7-11-69 

U 

— 

22-8(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

59449 

7-11-69 

U 

— 

29 -87(1) 

DurgaKhote Produc- 

Durga Khote Produc- 

59450 


tions, India House, 

1 st floor. Fort street, 
Bombay- 1. 

tions, Bombay-] . 

7-11-69 

U 


30 -00(1) 

Widescreen, 4, Shirin, 

Widescreen, 

59451 


Colaba Post Office, 
Bombay-4. 

Bombay-4, 

7-11-69 

U 


30 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

59452 

7-11-69 

U 

— 

146-32(1) 

National Education & 
Information Films 
Ltd. National House, 
Tulloch Rd. Bombay- 
1 . 

B. B. C. (U..K.) 

59453 

7-11-69 

U 


335 -57(1) 

Do. 

B. B. C. Tv. (Paul 
Ellis) (U.K.) 

59454 

7-11-69 

U 


335-57(1) 

Do. 

Do, 

59455 

7-11-69 

U 


335-57(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

59456 

_ 


7-11-69 


1766 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 


[Pari 111— Sec. 4* 



■ 







(1) 


(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 


ENDORSEMENTS 

CORRECTIONS 

B/48898 

Film: “View &Teach-No. 18-The Language of Science u (Eng.) 

U-49727dt. 2-2-1969. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 1 61 metres instead of 1 67 -64 metres. 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1969. 

B/48901 

Film: “View & Teach-No. 21 -Correcting Mistakes" (English) 

LI -49720 dt. 2-2-1969. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 1 66 matres instead of 167 -64 meties. 
The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1969. 


VERSIONS 

B/58179 

Film: “Apollo 11 One Giant Leap For Mankind" (English) (Col.) 

U-58251 dt 5-9-69 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length 
of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1 969. 

B/58171 


C-6443 


M-5772 

M-5780 


M-5762 


Film: “Apollo 12” (English) (Colour) 
U-58306dt. 12-9-69 


The certificate is valid also for the Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, Timal, Telugu, Kannada & Malayalam versions 
of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 4th November 1969. 


Vasa (Bengali) (35 mm) 
(India). 


‘Chellappen’ (Tamil) 
(35 mm) (B & W.) 
(India.) 

Trailier of ‘Dhorala 
Dhongala’ (Telugu) 
(35 mm) (B&W) 
(India). 

‘Paisa Ya Pyar” (Hin- 
di) (East man Colour) 
(35 mm) (India). 


CALCUTTA 


326-14(1) Barin Saha, 18/B, Barin Saha, 18/B, 
Bipradas Street, Cal- Bipradas Street, Cal- 
cutta-9. cutta-9. 

MADRAS 


3976-11(16) K. K. Films, 32, Ven- Shri K. Krishnamurtt, 

katnarayana Rd., 32, Venkatanarayana 

Madras-17. Road, Madras-17. 


114-00(1) Sunil Pictures, 505, 
Mint St., Madras-3. 


Sunil Pictures, 505, 
Mint St., Madras-3. 


L 

58450 


7-11-69 


U 

57396 

3-11-69 

U 

57397 


5-1 1-69 


U 

4770-80(18) Jayvee, 19 North Boag Jayvee, 19, North Buag 57398 — 

Road, Madras-17. Road, Madras-17. 

5-11-69 With triangle mark. 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 57398— U dated 5thNovemberl969— issued to the film' Paisa Ya Pyar' (Hindi) (Eastniancolour)(35nmi) 


Length as in the application . — 4921 -30 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reels 1 & 18— Z)c/efetheword‘Prime’fromtheword‘PrimeMinister’inthedialoguewhereveritoccurs. 11-27 

2. Reels 1— Delete the shot in which Shanti dressed in a tight dress sits with legs apart in an indifferent manner on the couch. 4 -25 

3. Reels 4— (a) From the swimming pool sequence, delete ail ihe under-water shots in which Shanti and Shekhar are shown in 

close physical proximity. 4 -56 

(b) Delete the shot in which Shekhar runs his hand over the chest and stomach of Shanti 3 -64 

4. Reels 10 — Delete from the dialogue between Deepak and Dhanno the words ‘Hojaye.’ 0 -91 

5. Reels 1 1 — From the text of the song beginning with words ‘Thoo Bhi Number Ek Hai Pyare’, delete the word ‘Syndicate’, ) 

wherever it occurs, and delete the stanza beginning ‘Jinko Chochen Buddi to Nayi Nasal Se Takkar Ley Lo’. )- 125 -87 

6. Reels 1 1 — From the picturisation of the same song, delete the shot showing the Idol of Hanuntan (Entire song has been J 

deleted voluntarily by the applicant. 


Total cuts 


150-50 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4770 -80 Metres in 18 Reels. 


U 

M-5745 ‘Shantala’ (Ballet Dan- 270-36(1) Ramesn Movies, Ban- Ramesh Movies, Ban- 57399 

nee) (Orwocolour) (35 galore-9. galore-9. 

mm) (India). 6-1 1 -69 

U 

M-5777 ‘Veragarjanai’ (Tamil) 3610-35(14) Imperial Films, 32, Imperial Films, 32, 57400 

(35 mm) (B&W) (In- Nadu St., Madras-4. Nadu St., Maras-4. — — 

dia). 6-11-69 



JPart ll I — Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF 1 INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 


M-5713 ‘Hoobisilu’ (Kannada) 

(35 mm) (B&W) (In 
dia). 

M-5765 ‘Pratheekara’ (Kanna- 

da) (35 mm) (B&W.) 
(India). 


4516-82(17) Kalaimani Movies, 49, Kalaimani Movies, 49, 65001 

Iyamperumal Mudali Iyamperuma] Mudali 

St., Madras- 14. St. Madras-14. 7-11-69 

U 

4267-20(15) Shanthala Films, No. Shantala Films, No. 65002 

533, Krumbiegal Rd., 533, Krumbiega] Rd., 

Bangalore-4. Bangalore-4. 7-11-69 


Particulars of Films Granted or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors ( Regional Office, Calcutta) during the 

Week Ending 15 th November 1969. 

BOMBA Y 


B/58238 “Indian News Re- 

view No. 1101” 
(35mm)(Iudia) 

B/58256 “The Story of Ven- 

kataramiah” (35mm) 
(India) 

B/58188 “The School In So- 

ciety” (Col.) (Eng- 
lish) (16mm) (Swe- 
den) 

B/58140 “Wonderful World 

of Formica” (Col.) 
(English) (16mm) 
(India) 

B/58257 Trailer of “Jeff” (Col.) 

(English) (35mm) 
(U.S.A.) 


127-40(1) Films Division. Govt. Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24, Peddar of India, Bombay-26. 
Rd. Bombay-26. 

185-04(1) Do. Do. 


804-10(1) Royal Swedish Em- Swedish Institute, 

bassy, l.VyayaMarg, Stockhdm, (Nordisk . 

Chanakyapuri, New Tonefilm) (Sweden) 13-11-69 
Delhi-11. 


59457 Valid for 14 versions 

12-11-69 

U 

59458 Valid for 14 versions 

12-11-69 

U 

59459 — 


383-00(1) Formica India Ltd, Eruch Fanibunda, 16, 59460 

9, Wallace Street, Mayo Road, Bom- — — - — - — 
Fort. Bombay-1. bay-1. 13-11-69 


82-30(1) Warner Bros. Seven Alain Delon, (U.S.A.) 59461 

Arts (F.E.) Inc. 

Eros Bldg. . Church- 13-11-69 

gate, Bombay. 


B/58271 “Indian News Re- 

view No. 1101 -A” 
(35mm) (India) 

B/58273 “Ittefaq Ki Raat” 

(Col.) (Hindi)(35mni) 
(India) 

B/58273 Trailer of “Ittefaq” 

(Col.) (Hindi) (35mm) 
(India) 


161-84(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division Govt. 

of India, 24, Peddar of India, Bombay-26. 
Rd. Bombay-26. 


59462 Valid for 14 versions 


Rd. Bombay-26. 14-11-69 

U 

177-08(1) B. R. Chopra, 4 Chiney B. R. Chopra, Bom- Cancelled. 
Colony, Juhu Rd. bay-54. 

Bombay-54. 


177-08(1) 


14-11-69 


B/58259 


B/58246- 

55 


“The Discoverers” 
(Col.)(English)(16mm) 
(U.S.A.) 


“Terene” 

(India) 


(35mm) 


22.1-28(1) U. S. Information Ser- A Reckb am Production 
vice, Fazal Dhoy (U.S.A.) 

House, Marine Lines, 

Bombay. 


29.87(1) Leela Naidu, Leela Leela Naidu, Leela 
Naidu Prodor'ions, Naidu Productions, 
12, Sargent House, Bombay-1. 

Barrow Rd, Bombay- 1 


14-11-69 


59466 Valid for English, 

Hindh Tamil, 

14-11-69 Telugu, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Bengali, 
Kannada, Assa- 
mese & Malaya- 
lam versions. 


B/57910 Trailer of "Do Raaste” 
(Col.)(Hindi)(35mm) 
(India) 


95-71(1) Raj Khosla Film:, Raj Khosla Raj, 

Mehboob Studios, Khosla Films, Bom- 

Hill Road, Bandra, bay-50. 

Bombay-50. 


59467 With triangle mark. 
15-11-69 


Endorsement 

Original length — 98 -76m. 

Delete the opening shots of the scantily-clad female dancer performing at the club. — 3 -05m. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 95-71/n. 


B/58210 Trailer of “Fever 
Heat” (Co! ) English) 
(35mm) (U.S.A.) 


65-23(1) Paramount Films of Russell S. Doughten 
India Ltd. Hague Jr. (U.S.A.) 

Bldg. Sprott Rd. 

Bombay. 


15-11-69 



1768 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 

[Part III— Sec. 4’ 


(1) 

(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 

(7) 


B/58239 


B/58263 


B/58190 


“Nuclear Power From 
Tarapur” (English) 
135mm) (India) 

“Richer Harvests” 
(English) (35mm) 
(India) 


“Nootan Lux” (Col.) 
(35mm)(India) 


U 

358-75(2) Ama Private Ltd. Ama Private Ltd. Bom- 59469 

Canada Bldg: Hornby bay-1 

Rd. Bombay-1. 15-11-69 

U 

258-46(1) Durga Khote Produc- Durga Khote Produc- 59470 

lions, India House, lions, Bombay-1. — 

first floor. Fort 15-11-69 

Street, Bombay- 1. 

U 

24-38(1) Chopra Films, Anand Chopra Films, Bom- 59471 Valid for Bengali, 

Villa, 15th Rd.Born- bay-54. — Assamese, Hindi 

bay-54. 15-11-69 & Oriya Versions 


B/58194- “Navin Lux” (Col.) 
95 (35mm)(India) 


B/58196 “Naya Lux” (Col. ) 
(Marathi) (35mm) 
(India) 


B/57972 “Star On The Run” 
(Col.) (Hindi)(35mm) 
(India) 


B/58211 “Bandhan” (Col.) 

(Hindi) (35mm) 
(India) 


B/58258 “Moonlanding Step 
Two” (English)(16mm) 
(U.S.A.) 


B/58113 “Upwind-Down 'Un- 
der” (Col.) (English) 
(35mm)(U.S.A.) 

Endorsement 


U 

24-38(1) Do. Do. 59472 Valid for Gujarati 

— — — & Hindi versions. 

15-11-69 

U 

24-38(1) Do. Do. 59473 


15-11-69 


U 

30-48(1) Indra Bijlani, United United Film Markets, 59474 

Film Makers, 311-12, Bombay-1. — - — — 

Himalayala House, 15-11-69 

Palton Road, Bom- 
bay-1. 


U 

4378-44(17) Sippy Films, 3-G, G. P. Sippy, 23 Anand 59475 

Nazz Building, Bom- Nivas, A Road, 

bay-4. Churchgate, Bom- 15-11-69 

bay. 


29992(1) U.S. Informal ion Ser- 
vice, Fazal Bboy 
House, Marine Lines, 
Bombay. 


U 

U. S. Information 59476 

Agency, (U.S.A.) 

15-11-69 


24160(1) Warner Bros. Seven Art Mayer, (U.S.A.) 
Ai*s(F. E.) Inc. Eros. 

Bldg. Churchgate, 

Bombay. 


U 

59477 With triangle mark. 


15-11-69 


Original length— 254 -50m. 

Delete the shots giving close views of the girls at the beach from the point one of them takes off her clothes, revealing 
her figure in bikini as the camera remains focussed on naval, thighs and posteriors and taking into similar view 
figures of other girls in bikini. — 12-90m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 241 ■ 60m. 


B/58114 

“Big John” (Col.) 
(English) (35mm) 

(U.S.A.) 

259-00(1) 

Warner Bros. Seven 
Arts (F. E.) Inc. Eros 
Bldg. Churchgate, 
Bombay. 

Art Mayer, (U.S.A.) 

59478 

15-11-69 


B/58117 

"Tower” (Col.)(Eng- 
lish) (35mm) (U.S.A.) 

283-77(1) 

Do. 

Seneca Production, 

(U.S.A) 

U 

59479 

15-11-69 

— 

B/58118 

“See Ya Later Gla- 
diator” Col. (English) 
(35mm) (U.S.A.) 

185-60(1) 

Do. 

Warner Bros. Seven Arts 
(U.S.A) 

U 

59480 

15-11-69 

— 

B/58116 

“See Holland Before 

It Gets Too Big.” 
(Col.)(35mm)(U.S.A.) 

315-00(1) 

Do. 

Norman Weissman, 
(U.S.A.) 

U 

59481 English Titles No 

dialogue or com- 

15-11-69 mentary. 

B/58112 

“Big Game Haunt” 
(Col.)(English)(35mm) 
(U.S.A.) 

259-00(1) 

Do. 

Bill L. Hendricks, 
(U.S.A.) 

u 

59482 

15-11-69 

- 

B/58115 

“Motion” (Col.) 

(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

428 -85(1) 

Do. 

Crawley Film s Ltd., 
(U.S.A.). 

U 

59483 

11-11-69 

— 


11-11-69 



Part III— Sec. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1769 


1 

2 

3 

4 5 

6 

7 

B/57872 

“Jeff” 

(English) 

(U.S.A.) 

(Colour) , 2468 -88(5) 

(35 mm) 

Do. Alain Delon, (U.S.A.) 

U 

2626 

— 


ENDORSEMENTS 

13-11-69 



Alterations under Rule 34. 


B/42046 

Film : “Tokens of Gratitude (English). 

U-43087, dt. 23-11-64. 

Deleted various shots — 03 -00 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 214 -00 m. 
The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969. 


VERSIONS 

B/58221 

Film : “The Best Advt. For Number Ten” (Col.) (English) 

U-54944, dt. 6-9-1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Kannada version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unaffected. 

B/58227 

Film : “America In Space : The First Decade” (Col.) (Eng.) 

U-57816, dt. 17-7-69. 

The certificate is valid also the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969. 

B/58230 

Film : “The First Day” (Col.) (Eng.) 

U-57763, dt. 8-7-69. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969. 

B/58225 

Film : “Price of Fire” (Eng.) 

U-34377 dt. 23-12-61. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film. The legngth of the film remains unaltered.. 
The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969. 

B/58135 

Film : “Grassland Farming” (Eng.) 

U-32193, dt. 13-4-61. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969. 

B/58226 

Film : “Organisation Accident Dont Happen No. 1 .” 

U-51927, dt. 24-10-67. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi varision of the film. The length of the film remain unaltered. 
The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969. 

B/58132 

Film : “The Original of Weather” 

U-31911, dt. 19-9-63. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 13 November 1969. 

B/58134 

Film : “Rescue Party” (Eng.) 

U-37545m dt. 4-2-63. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate as endorsed on 13th November 1969. 

B/58134 

Film : “One Man : Blaine Johnson” (Col.) (Eng.) 

U-57560, dt. 3-6-69. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the 
film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

B/58 183-84 

Film : “One Man : Dr. RoberffSimpson” (English) (Col.) 

U-57561, dt. 3-6-69. 



1770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. 4 



.... 

j 

! 

] 

1 

' " 



1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

B/58133 

Film : “What is Behind The "Tag” (English) (Col.) 

U-35256, dt. 23-4-62. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

B/58131 

Film : “Poultry Nutrition” (English) 

U-34897, dt. 7-3-62. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

B/58187 

Film : “Jamboree for Friendship” (English) 

U-54976, dt. 10-9-69. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

B/58232 

Film : “The Road” (English) 

U-55656, dt. 13-11-1968. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

B/58231 

Film : “Bridge To Space” (Hindi) 

U-57719, dt. 1-7-1969. 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 

B/58228 

Film : “One Man : Floyd Hyde” (English) 

U-57566. dt. 3-6-69 

The certificate is valid also for the Hindi & Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 14th November 1969. 


CORRECTION 


B/42444 

Film : “View & Teach-Acting A Story” (English) 

U-43794, dt. 20-1-65. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 -4 metres 
The certificate was endorsed on 12th November 1969. 

B/48897 

Film : “View & Teach : No. 17— The Window Is Broken” (English) 

U-49729, dt. 2-2-67 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 154 metres instead of 167 -64 meties. 
The certificate was endorsed on 13 th November 1969. 

B/J42465 

' Film : “View & Teach — Planning Oral Work” (English) 

U-43796, dt. 20-1-65. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 -4 metres 
The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969 

B/42441 

Film : “View & Teach — Oral Practice” 

U-43791, dt. 20-1-65. 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 metres instead of 152 -4 metres. 
The certificate was endorsed on 13th November 1969. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1771 


1 2 3 4 5 6 

7 



C/6405 

C/6444-5 

C/6442 

C/6409 

M/5782 

M/5775 


Samantaral (Beng.) 
(35 mm) (India). 


Superlac Twins 

(Coloured) (English 
and Hindi) (38 mm) 
(India). 


CALCUTTA 

3340-00(12) Shadow Movies, 13/3, 
Monohar Pukur Rd., 
Calcutta-26. 

30 -48(1) Image India Films (P) 
Ltd., 9/1, Love look 
Place, Calcutta-19. 


U 

Shadow Movies, 13/3, 58451 

Monohar Pukur Rd., 

Calcutta -28. 10-11-69 

U 

Image India Films (P) 58452 

Ltd., 9/1, Lovelock 

Place, Calcutta-19. 10-11-69 


Punarjibon (Assamese) 
(35 mm) (India). 


Study in Steel (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.K.). 


365 *76(1) Asit Sinha (Sinhasit), 
2, Biswas Nursery 
Lane, Calcutta-10. 

320(1) Hindustan Steel Ltd., 
6, Ganesh Chandra 
Avenue. Calcutta-3. 


Asit Sinha (Sinhasit), 
2, Biswas Nursery 
Lane, Calcutta-10. 


British Steel Corpn. 
U.K. 


U 

58453 

10-11-69 

U 

58454 
10-11-69 


“Varnalaya” (Tamil) 
(Orwocolour) (35mm) 
(India) 


MADRAS 


U 

35 -00(1) Kalaimani Movies, Kalaimani Movies, 65003 

49, Iyemperumal 49, Iyemperumal 

Mudali St., Madras Mudali St., Madras 14 12-11-69 
14. 


U 

“Thudikkum Thup- 4070-77(18) Tamilmani Films, 4, Tamlimani Films, 4, 65004 With triangle mark. 

paki” (Tamil)(35mm) Thanikachalam Chetti Thanikachalam Chetti 

(B&W)(India) St., Madras 17. St., Madras-17. 13-11-69 


Endorsement on Censor Certificate No. 65004-U dated 13th November 1969 — issued to the film “Thudikkum Thuppaki” 
(Tamil) 35mm. B&W. 

Length as in the application 4079 -74 Metres. 

Cuts. Metres. 

1 . Reel 4 — Song 1— Delete the following lines (a) Then Kannam Aa Enn Kannam. Pottukko 

Raja Pottukko. (b)Azhakana Vazhaithandu, and (c) Then Vaidyum Kaadhal Mottu 
Mottu (The entii c song has been removed and replaced with a fresh song — sound only). — 

2. Reel 9 — Delete the last shot at the end of song No. 3, where Anand puts his head on the 

bust of Shanti 0 -60 

3. Reel 14 — Delete the sequence where the policeman is shaking with fear on seeing the dead 

body move. 8 -37 


Total cuts. 


8-97 


M/5774 

M/5778 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4070 -77 Metres in 1 8 Reels. 


Trailer of ‘Tudikkum 
Thuppakki’ (Tamil) 
(35mm)(B&W)(India). 


“Kannula Panduga” 
(Telugu) (Partly col- 
ouredX35mm)(India) 


U 

88-40(1) Tamilmani Films, 4, Tamilamani films, 4, 65005 

Thanikachalam Chetti Thanikachalam Chetti 

St., Madras-17. St., Madras-17. 13-11-69 

U 

4517-91(17) Vikas Productions, Vikas Productions, 65006 With triangle mark 

42, G. N. Chetti, Rd. 42, G. N. Chetti Rd., — 

Madras-17. Madras-17. 13-11-69 


Endorsement on Censor Certificate No. 65006-U dated 13th November 1969 — issued to the film “Kannula Panduga’ 

frr.1 \ /n _ 1 /*» z* \ 53 


(Telugu) (Partly coloured) (35mm). 

Length as in the application — 4535-00 Metres. 

Cuts. Metres 

1 . Reel 4 — Reduce the beating of Meenakshi by Kanthamma drastically (by 75 %) 7 -60 

2. Reel 9 — Reduce the beating of Meenakshi by Kanthamma in two separate sequences— once 

by hand and another by cane, (both drastically — by 75 %). 6 -09 

3. Reel 10 — Delete the shot where the dancer (Baby) shakes her hips in backways and forwards 

motion while putting her knee down on a pedestal. 3 .40 

Total Cuts 17 -09 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 4517 -91 Metres in 17 Reels. 

Black & White portion of the film is 4219 -91 Metres. Orwo colour portion in Reel No. 17.298 -00 Metres. 

U 

M/5788 ‘Brindavana’ (Kannada) 4712 -20(16) Sri Nandhi Films, Sri Nandhi Films, 65007 

(Partly coloured) Mysore. Mysore. 

(35mm)(India) 15-11-69 


M299GI/70 — 11 




1772 


[Part 111 — Sec. 4’ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 




~ 




- 

1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 



Particulars of Films Certified or Refused certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the Week-ending 22nd November 1969 

BOMBA Y 


B/58291 “RtfreJhei Course For 
Asi.-n Script 

Writers” (English) 

(35 mm) (India). 


U 

934-00(4) Film Institute of India, Film Institute of India, 59484 

Law College Road, Bombay-4. 

Poona-4. 17-11-69 


U 


B/58264 

“Aap Ki Pasand” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

29-87(1) 

Clarion-Mccann Ad- 
vertising Service Pvt. 
Ltd. Merchant Cham- 
bers, Bombay. 

Jyoti G. -Thakur, Film 
Media, 47, Laxmi 
Assurance Bldg. Sir 
P.M. Road Fort, 
Bombay- 1. 

59485 

17-11-69 

B/58266 

“Apna Hi Maja” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

29-87(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59486 

17-11-69 

B/58088 

“Nateeja” (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

3851 -66(14) 

Jugal Productions, 

Hind Rajasthan Bldg. 
Dadar, Main Road 
Bombay- 14. 

Jugal Kishore, Bom- 
bay-14. 

U 

59487 

17-11-69 


With triangle mark. 


Endorsement : 


Original length : 3856 -23m. 

Reel IV— (a) Reduce close shots of Shagufa in scanty dress making hip-movements 
before performing the song “Is ada se salam lete hain ” (Re- 

placed with approved shots : 2 -13m.) 

( Length retained : 1 -52m) . 

(b) Delete the shot showing Vinod holding Shagufa in close embrace and 
trying to kiss her before dancing with her. 


>-2 -13m. 


Reel V — (a) Delete the words “Gagra to uthao” as spoken by the tailore to Bindu 
while taking her measurements, and view of her thigh which she exposes 
at his insistance : 1 -83m. 

(b) Reduce to bare minimum view of Bindu’s back as she moves away from 
Vinod in the dinner scene : 2 -74m. 

( Length retained : 0 -91m) 


Reel X — Delete the shot showing Vinod rolling over Bindu during their Duet “Turn 
mile dard gaya” also reducing later shot showing him holding arid moving 
her hips. — 2 -74m. 

(Replaced with approved shots :2'74m-) 


Length of deletions : 9 -44m. 

Length of approved replacements : 4 -87m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3851 -66m 

U 

B/58233 Trailer of “Nateeja” 87 -78(1) Jugal Productions, Jugal Kishore Sharma, 59488 With triangle mark. 

(Hindi) (35 mm) Hind Rajasthan Bldg. Bombay-14. 

(India). Dadar, Main Road 17-11-69 

Bombay-14. 


Endorsement : 

Original length : 87 -78111. 

Delete the shot of Vinod rolling over Bindu while singing. — 2 -31m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 2 -13m.) 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations remains unaltered. 

U 

283-00(1) Film Institute of India, Film Institute of India, 59489 

Law College Road Poona-4. — — - 

Poona-4. 17-11-69 

U 

241-00(1) Do. Do. 59490 


17-11-69 


B/58293 “Mother And Child” 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58292 “Water Your Friend” 
(English) (35 mm) 



P^rt III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1773 


1 


2 


3 4 


5 


6 


B/58261- ‘‘Year Round Fitness” 
62 (Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/56738 Trailer of “Diaboli- 
cally Yours” (Colour) 
(English') (35 mm) 
(France). 

Endorsement : 


30 -48(1) Kantilal Rathod, Akar Kantila] Ratbod, Bom- 
Films, Bhulabhai Ins- bay-20, 
titute, 89 B. Desai 
Road, Bombay-20. 


U 

59491 Valid for Hindi, and 

— Bengali versions. 

18-11-69 


U 

76 -45(1) Paramount Films of Raymond Danon, 59492 With triangle mark. 
India Ltd. Hague (France), 

Bldg. Sprott Road 18-11-69 

Bombay. 


B/57322 


B/5810 1 


Original length : 90 -83m. 

1. Delete the view of Christiane in semi-nude state with a mere scarf over her posteriors. — 1 -62m. 

2. Delete the shot showing Campo jumping over Christiane and trying to kiss her forcibly along with her words 
“What are you going to do — rape me” and the subsequent scene showing Campo jumping over her in bed and 
trying to kiss her forcibly.— 10 -32m. 

3. Reduce to bare minimum Frederic mercilessly beating Christiane. — 2 '44m. 

( Length retained : 1 -80) 

Length of deletions : 14 -38m. 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 76 -45m. 


Trailer of “Skidoo” 
(Panavision) (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(USA). 


68 -94(1) Paramount Films of Otto 

India, Ltd. Hague (U.S.A.) 

Bldg. Sprott Road 
Bombay. 


U 

Preminger, 59493 With triangle mark. 


18-11-69 


Endorsement : 

Original length : 72 -54m. 

1. Delete the shot of a nude girl being painted. — 1 -52m. 

2. Delete the shots of the thin black girl with bare back. — 2 -08m. 

Length of deletion : 3 -60m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 68 -94m. 

U 

“Do Raaste” (Colour) 4545 -74(18) Raj Khosia Films, Raj Khosla Films, 59494 With triangle mark. 

(Hindi) (35 mm) Mehboob Studios, Bombay-50. — 

(India). Hill Road Bandra, 18-11-69 

Bombay-50. 


Endorsement 


B/58284 


B/58287- 

90 


Original length : 4550 -00m. 

Reel V — From the duet ‘Chhup gaye saare nazare * delete the shot showing Satyen pulling Rena over himself, 

while rolling along with her on the ground and their later shot wherein he moves his hand over calves and things. — 
4 -11m. (Replaced with approved shots : 1 -37m). 

Reel VIII — Delete the shot of Viju during his scene with Neela pressing his lips over her face preceding her words 
‘Kya ham alag nahin reh sakte”? — 1 -52m. 

Reel XI— Delete the close shots (3rd and 4th) of the female dancer in scanty dress performing at the club as she archs 
her body with face down to audience and subsequently exposes her navel, lifting the- diaphanous scarf above 
her torso and covering her face.— 8 -22m. (Replaced with approved shots : 8 -22m.) 

Length of deletions : 13 -85m. 


Length of approved replacements — 9 -59m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : — 4545 -74m. 


“A Family Friend” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 Dim) (India) 


30 -48(1) Jaisons Advertising, Short Prints, C/o 
Khar, Bombay-52. Basant Studios, 
Chember, Bombay-74 


“Daylong Freshness” 30-48(1) Do, 

(Colour) (35 mm) 

(India). 


Jaisons Advertising, 
Khar, Bombay-52. 


U 

59495 — 

18-11-69 

U 

59496 Valid for English, 
- — — — - Tamil, Malayalam, 
18-11-69 & Kannada ver- 

sions. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 



1 

2 

3 

B/57724 

“Management Tech- 
niques (Film No. 5) 
Investment Planning” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.K.) 

335 -57(1) 

B/57723 

“Management Tech- 
niques (Film No. 4) 
Controlling Stocks” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.K.) 

335 -57(1) 

B/58285 

“All Time Healer” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 

30 -48(1) 

B/58049 

“B A/013 (Breathing)” 
(Silent) (Col.) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

14-33(1) 

B/58001 

“C/B/10 (Chevson 

Stitch) (Col) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U. K.) 

18-19(1) 

B/58028 

“C/B/8 (Pekinese 

(Stitch (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

20 -73(1) 

B/58007 

“P M OGO (Longitu- 
dinal Waves) (Col.) 
(Silent) (8mm) (U.K.) 

7 -92(1) 

B/58000 

“P M 150 (The Lift 
Pump) (Silent) (Col.) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

14-33(1) 

B/57993 

“P M 148 (The Col- 
lapse Of An Evacua- 
led Can) (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

8 -53(1) 

B/58036 

“S P/M/1 (Energy and 
The Pendulum) (Si- 
lent) (Col.) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

9-14(1) 

B/58002 

“C/B/ll (Magic Chain 
Stitch)” (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

16.46(1) 

B/58031 

“P A 026 (Alpha Par- 
ticles)” (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

11 -89(1) 

B/58034 

“S P/M/3 (Uniform 
Velocity) (Colour) 

(Silent) (8 mm) (tJ .K.) 

9 -45(1) 

B/57802 

“Alfred The Great” 
(Cinemascope) (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.) 

3371 -74(14) 


Information Films (U.K.) 
Ltd. National House, 

Tulloch Road Bom- 
bay. 


Khar, Bombay-52. 


276, Honyby Road, 
Bombay. 


sant Studios Chem- 
ber, Bombay-74. 


India Ltd. Metro yer (U.S.A.) 

House, M.G. Road 

Bombay. 


18-11-69 


18-11-69 


18- 11-69 
U 

*9500 

19- 11-69 
U 

59501 

19-11-69 

U 

59502 

19-11-69 

U 

59503 

19-11-69 

U 

59504 

19-11-69 

U 

59505 
19-11-69 


19-11-69 


19-11-69 

U 

59508 — 

19-11-69 

U 

59509 — 

19-11-69 

U 

59510 With triangle mark. 
19-11-69 


B/58265 


Endorsement 

Original length : 3390 -59m. 

Reel IV (25 )-— Delete the undermentioned words as spoken by Alfred during a scene with Aelhs with in the course of 
interpreting the Bible to her “When two lovers to their piivate couch, no poet is needed behind the bolted door. 
Without his aid, words will be grasped. Hands will not lie idle on the beds fingers find their uses in those parts 
love sets fire to.— 18 -85m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be : — 3371 -74m. 

U 

Trailer of “Anrnol 90-83(1) S.D. Narang, Proprie- S. D. Narang, Proprie- 59511 — 

Moti” (Col.) (Hindus- tor. New Oriental Pic- tor. New Oriental Pic- — 

tani) (35 mm) (India) tures, 150, Famous tures, Bombay-11. 19-11-69 

Cine Bldg. Maha- 
laxmi, Bombay-11. 



EfcRT III — Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 1775 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


B/58300 

B/58272 

B/58276 

B/58275 

B/58145 

B/58268 

B/58059 

B/58051 

B/58004 

B/57991 

B/57990 

B/57599 


“MahitichitraNo. 115” 
(Gujarati) (35 mm) 
(India). 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1102” (35 mm) 
(India). 


“State Visit To Japan 
of Her Excellency 
Shrimati Indira” 


“Nature’s Bounty : 
Flowers For The 
Japanese” (Colour) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(Japan). 

Trailer of “Ben-Hur” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (U.S.A.) 


“Office Work Opera- 
tions Sam NCE (6302 
Series Sam) (Rating 
Film) (Silent) (1 6 mm) 
(U.S.A.) 


SP/M/5 (Force Mass 
And Acceleration 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 


SP/H/8 (Vapour Pres- 
sure And Tempera- 
ture) (Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm) (U.K.) 

BA/007 (The Heart In 
Action) (Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm) (U.K.) 

“C/B/4 (Stem Stitch)” 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 


“C/B/3 (Coral Knot 
Stitch)” (Col.) (Silent) 
(8 mm) (U.K.) 

“Shart” (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


249 -94(1) Director of Informa- Director of Informa- 
tion, Govt, of Gujarat tion, Govt, of Guja- 

Sachivaiya, Ahmeda- rat, Ahmedabad-15. 
bad-15. 


203 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24, Peddar of India Bombay-26. 
Road Bombay-26. 


298 -70(1) Consulate General of Kyodo Television 
Japan, Kashmir House, New Ltd. (Japan) 

19, Nepean Sea Road 
Bombay-6. 

365 -76(1) Do. Koga Productions Inc. 

Japan. 


U 

59512 

19-11-69 


U 

59513 Valid for 14 ver- 
sions. 

19-11-69 

U 

59514 — 

19-11-69 

U 

59515 — 

19-11-69 


U 

81-07(1) Metro Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Mayer 59516 — 

India Ltd. Metro (U.S.A.) 

House, M.G. Road 19-11-69 

Bombay. 

U 

487-68(4) National Productivity Sam Rating Films 59517 — 

Council, Novelty Committee Under 

Chembers, 7th Floor Agency Newyork 19-11-69 

Grant Road Bom- College of Engineer- 

bay-7. ing Research Founda- 

tion, (U.S.A.) 

U 

15 -24(1) Macmillan & Co. Ltd. ICEM London, (U.K.) 59518 

276, Honyby Road, 

Bombay. 19-11-69 

U 

10-97(1) Do. Do. 59519 — 

19-11-69 

U 

13- 11(1) Do. Do. 59520 — 

19-11-69 

U 

14- 94(1) Do. Do. 59521 — 

19-11-69 

U 

17-98(1) Do. Do. 59522 — 

19-11-69 

U 

3897 -19(17) Rajkumar Kohli, Rajkumar Kohli, 59523 With triangle mark. 

Shankar Movies, 227 Bombay-11. 

Famous Cine Bldg. 19-11-69 

Bombay-11. 


Endorsement — 

Original length : 3921 -27m. 

Reel V— In the picturisation of the song beginning with the words “Tu kaun hai tu kaun hai ” delete the promi- 

nent views of the wriggling of dancer’s hip portion from the front and back. — 5 -49m. (Replaced with approved 
shots : 5 -49m). 

Reel VII — Reduce drastically the shots of Johnny massaging a girl keeping merely the last portion where his fingers 
are on her feet. Delete the accompanying dialogues reading as under “Johnny at Johnny ghanti, bajati”. 
“Bajanewali cheez to bajna hai mangta”. 

upto “Hamari ghanti to use dinse bajati hai jabse tumko dekha hai”. — 1 1 -58tai. 

( Length retained : 162 -15m.) 

Ree XVI & XVII— Reduce the fight between Raj and the man with iron fist and fight in the car as also on the bridge. 
— 12 -50m. (Length retained : Reel XVI : 89 -61 and Reel XVII : 41 -76m.) 

Length of deletions . — 29 -57m. 

Length of approved replacements ; 5 -49m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : — 3897 T9.m 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. i 



u 


B/58006 C/B/2 (Chain Stitch) 18-29(1) Macmillan & co. Ltd. ICEM London, (U.K.) 59524 

(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm) 276, Honyby Road 

(U.K.) Bombay. 20-11-69 


B/58054 

PA/028 (Thompson’s 
Positive Ray Para- 
bolas) (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

14-02(1) 

B/58003 

C/B/12 (Oversewing) 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 ram) 
(U.K.) 

20-12(1) 

B/58029 

C/B/9 (Herringbone 
Stitch) (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

13-41(1) 

B/57996 

C/B/l (Running Stitch 

On Binca Canvas 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

17-98(1) 

B/58046 

SP/M/11 (Bernoulli’s 
Theorem) (Colour) 
(Silent) (8 ram) (U.K.) 

13-72(1) 

B/58035 

SP/M/2 (Momentum 
And The Pendulum 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

14-94(1) 


U 

Do. Do. 59525 

20-11-69 

U 

Do. Do. 59526 

20-11-69 

U 

Do, Do. 59527 

20-11-69 

U 

Do. Do. 59528 

20-11-69 

U 

Do. Do. 59529 

20-11-69 

U 

Do. Do. 59530 


20-11-69 


B/58025 

C/B/5 (Blanket Stitch) 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

12-50(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59531 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58058 

SP/M/6 (Motion At 
Rigltt Angles) (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

19-20(1) 

Do. 

Do, 

U 

59532 

20-11-69 

__ 

B/58033 

SP/M/4 (Uniform 

Acceleration) (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

17-68(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59533 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58057 

SP/M/7 (Motion In A 
Circle Part I) (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

19-20(1) 

Do. 

Do, 

U 

59534 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58048 

SP/M/8 (Motion In A 
Circle Part II) (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

12-80(1) 

Do. 

Do., 

U 

59535 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58027 

C/B/7 (Single Fly 
Stitch) (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

16-46(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59536 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58026 

C/B/6/ (Couching 

(Silent) (Col.) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

19-81(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59537 

20-11-69 

— 

B/57986 

SP/M/12 (Standing 

Waves) (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

19-81(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59538 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58056 

PH/ 164 (Regelation) 
(Col. (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

7-01(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59539 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58060 

SP/H/9 (Vapour Pres- 
sure And Boiling) 
(Col.) (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

16-15(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59540 

20-11-69 

— 

B/58019 

PE/S/3 (Swimming 

The Breaststroke (Si- 
lent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

17-07(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

un? 

59541 

20-11-69 

— 


1777 


Rart III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 



1 

2 

3 

B/58024 

PE 208 (The Micro- 
metermetric (Col.) 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

14-02(1) 

B/58005 

PE/S/1 (Teaching 

Beginners) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

20-12(1) 

B/58020 

PE/S/4 (Learning The 
Front Crawl) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

13 -72(1) 

B/58046 

SP/M/10 (Bernoulli’s 
Theorem Aerofloil In 

A Wind Tunnel) 
(Col. (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

8 -84(1) 

B/58322 

Trailer of “Shart” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

80-47(1) 

B/58234 

“Star” (Col.) (English) 
(70 mm (U.S.A.) 

5213-00(24) 

B/58239 

Trailer of “Star” (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm) 

(U.S.A.) 

109 -(1) 

B/57820 

“A Time To Sing” 
(Cinemascope) (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.) 

2530-14(10) 

B/57821 

Trailer of “A Time To 
Sing" (Cinemascope) 
(Col.) (English) 

55-77(1) 

B/58061 

PM/158 (Air Occupies 
Space) (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

8-23(1) 

B/58014 

PM/002 (The -Sine 
Wave (Silent) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

6-40(1) 

B/58015 

PM/014 (Transverse 
Waves) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

7 -32(1) 

B/57984 

SP/H/3 (The Reflection 
Of Radiation) (Silent) 
(Col.) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

12-19(1) 

B/58013 

PM/001 (Simple Har- 
monic Motion) (Silent) 
(8 mm) (U.K.) 

8 -23(1) 

B/57995 

PM/149 (The Syphon) 
(Silent.)i(Col) (8 mm) 
(U.K.) 

15-54(1) 

B/57422 

PM/ 166 Pressure 2 
(Simple Kinetic Theo- 
ry) (Silent) (Col.) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

7-62(1) 


276, Honyby Road, 
Bombay. 


Shankar Movies, 227, Bombay-1 1 . 
Famous Cine Bldg, 

Bombay-1 1 . 


(I) Pvt. Ltd. Metro 
House, M.G. Road 
Bombay. 


India Ltd. Metro yer, (U.S.A.) 

House, M.G. Road 

Bombay. 


276, Honyby Road, 
Bombay. 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


20-11-69 


21-11-69 


21-11-69 


21-11-69 


21-11-69 


21-11-69 


21-11-69 


21-11-69 


1778 


THE GAZETT E OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. % 


B/58299 

“Contac 12” 

(Colour) 

28-96(1) 

(English) 

(India). 

(35 mm) 



B/57813 

“Baba” 

(India). 

(35 mm) 

422-45(2) 

B/58321 

“Polypick 1000 — (Part 

131-06(1) 


C)” (Col.) (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/58319 “Polypick 1000 (Part- 38-10(1) 

‘B’) (Col.) (English 
& Hindi) (35 ram) 

(India). 

B/58317 “Polypick 1000 (Part- 38-10(1) 

A)” (Col.) (English 
& Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

B/58197 “The Science Report 145-70(1) 

94 B” (English) (16 
mm) (U.S.A.) 


B/58267 “The Science Report 158-80(1) 
95-A” (English) (16 
mm) (U.S.A.) 


B/57395 “Sathe Biscuits & 
Chocolates” (Cricket) 
(35 mm) (India) 


B/58280 “Sathe Biscuits & 

Chocolates” (Col.) 
(Kabbadi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

B/58212 “Safety And Solvents” 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm) (U.K.) 

B/58240 “Pythagoras Theorem: 

Part Two” (English) 
(16 mm) (England). 


B/55538 "Glimpses of An 

Eventful Life” (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.S.R.) 

B/58041 PE/S/8 (Learning The 

Butterfly) (Silent) 
(8 mm) (U.K.) 


Canada Bldg., D.N. Bombay. 
Road, Bombay. 


of India, 24, Peddar of India, Bombay-26. 
Road, Bombay-26. 


D 7/B, Bhadran bay-64. 
Nagar, Malad (West), 
Bombay-64. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

59558 

21-11-69 

U 

59559 

21-11-69 

U 

59560 
21-11-69 

U 

59561 
21-11-69 

U 

59562 


Valid for 14 ver- 
sions. 




21-11-69 



U 

U.S. Information Ser- 

Robert 

Fester, 59563 

vice, Fazal Bhoy 

(U.S.A.) 

House, Marine Lines, 

21-11-69 

Bombay. 


U 


Do. 


Do. 


29-57(1) Ram Gabale Produc- Ram Gabale Produc- 
tions, Neelima, 2072, tions, Poona-9. 

Vijaya Nagar, Colo- 
ny, Poona-9. 


30-18(1) 


Do. Do. 


192-2(1) Executive 
National 
Council. 


Director A Chemidiv Produc- 
Safety tions, (U.K.) 


72-90(1) Educational Films of Gateway Film Produc- 
India, Division of tions in collaboration 
Film Library Pvt. with zoro films of 
Ltd. Kitab Mahal, Yuguslavia, (Eng- 
190, D.N. R oad , Bom- land). 
bay-1. 


B/58241 “Pythagoras Theorem: 70-85(1) 

f irt One” (English) 

(1 5 mm) (England). 


Do. 


Do. 


310-00(1) U.S.S.R. Consulate Central Documentary 
General, 40 Nepean Film Studio, 

Sea Road, Bombay. (U.S.S.R.) 


12-80(1) Macmillan & Co. Ltd. ICEM London, (U.K.) 
276, Honyby Road, 

Bombay. 


B/58042 PE/S/9 (Swimming 18-90(1) 

The Butterfly) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

B/58012 PM/170 (The Force 6-71(1) 

Pump) (Col.) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 

B/58062 PM/162 (Air Has 12-80(1) 

Weight) (Silent) 

(8 mm) (U.K.) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


59564 

21-11-69 

U 

59565 
21-11-69 

U 

59566 
21-11-69 

U 

59567 

21-11-69 

U 

59568 
21-11-69 


U 

59569 

21-11-69 

U 

59570 
21-11-69 

U 

59571 

21-11-69 

U 

59572 

21-11-69 

U 

59573 

21-11-69 

U 

59574 
21-11-69 


Valid for Hindi, 
English, Tamil, & 
Kannada versions. 


Valid for Hindi, Eng- 
• lish, Marathi, 
Gujarati versions. 



1779 


Part HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


— 




— 

1 

2 

3 4 

5 6 

7 

B/57994 

PM/ 163 (The Magde- 
burg Hemisphere) 

(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.) 

11-28(1) Macmillan & Co. Ltd . 

276, Honyby Road, 
Bombay. 

U 

ICEM London, (U.K.) 59575 

21-11-69 

— 


B/56737 “Diabolically Yours” 2544-10(10) Paramount Films of Raymond Danon, 2627 With triangle mark. 

(Col.) (English) India Ltd., Hague (France). 

(35 mm) (France). Bldg., Sprott Road, 18-11-69 

Bombay. 

Endorsement — 

Original length : 2561 - 84m. 

Reels Nos. II, III, IV, & VIII — Delete Campo calling his Chinese male servant by the names ‘Mao-tse-tung’, ‘Chairman 
Mao’, and ‘Mao’— 6-46m. 

Reel III— Reduce drastically the scene showing Kiem massaging Christiane shown lying with a mere scarf over her 
posteriors, particularly deleting from the point when Kiem pushes the scarf down again when he massages her 
legs upwards and looks over her figure. — 11 -28m. 

( Length retained : 8 • 00m.) 

Length of deletions : — 17-74m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 2544- 10m. 


ENDORSEMENTS 


ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 

B/56501 

Film : “The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie” (English) (Col.) 

A-2623,dt. 16-10-69 

Delete the following dialogues : 

Reel II— Jenny : They have sexual intercourse. 

Sandy : Oh, I don’t like to think about it. 

Jenny : You don’t have to think about it. It happens on the spur of the moment. 
Reel III— Jenny : You lead. 

Sandy : How do you know ? 

Jenny : Know what ? 


Sandy : What you were saying., .about that sexual intercourse happens on the spur of the moment. 

Jenny : Because it happened to Teenie that works in my father’s shop when she was out walking at 

Puddocky with her boy friend. They had to get married. 

Sandy : You’d think that the urge would have passed by the time they’d got their clothes off. 

Jenny : Yes, that’s what I can’t understand. If people take their clothes off in front of each other, it’s 
so rude! They’re bound to be put off their passion. 


Total cut— 33 • 22m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 31 15 -42m. 

The Certificate was endorsed on \lth November 1969. 

B/57034 

Film : “Khamoshi” (Hindi) 

U-57775, dt. 11-7-69 

Reel XIII — Delete one shot showing Wahida crying near the door. — 14-63m. 

Reel XIII— Addition of scene between Rajesh and Wahida and subsequent dialogues “Main Radha ke thik hone tak 
rah dekhoonga” is approved. — 25 -30m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3 504 -90m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 18 th November 1969. 

B/42445 

Film : “View and Teach : Conversation with the Black Board” (English). 

U-43795’ dt. 20-1-65 


CORRECTION 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165-00m. instead £>/152-4m. 
The certificate was endorsed on 21s/ November 1969. 

B/42442 

Film : “View and Teach : Teaching A New Pattern” (Eng.) 

U-43792 dt. 20-1-65 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 -00m. instead of 152 -4m. 
The certificate was endorsed on list November 1969. 


229GI/70— 12 


1780 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [PART III— Sec. A 







" 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 



B/42443 

Film : “View and Teach : Sentence Patterns” (Eng.) 

U-43793 dt. 20-1-65 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165-00 m. instead of 152 -4 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969. 

B/42440 

Film : “View and Teach : Question and Answer ” (English). 

U-43790 dt. 20-1-65 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165-00 in. instead of 152-4 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969. 

B/57600 

Film : “The Giver And The Taker” (English). 

U-59214dt. 25-9-69. 

Name of the applicant on the reverse of the certificate may be read as “Director of Information, Govt, of Gujarat”, 
instead of “Prakash Arora”. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969 
B/48896 

Film : “View and Teach No. 16 : Ask Him How Old He Is.’ (English) 

U-49725 dt. 2-2-67. 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 131 -00 m. instead of 167-64 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21 st November 1969. 

B/48800 

Film : “View and Teach No. 20 : Group Conversation” (English) 

U-49719 dt. 2-2-67 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 137-00 m. instead of 167-64 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969. 

B/42444 

Film : “View and Teach : Acting A Story” (English) 

U-43794 dt. 20-1-65 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165-00 m. instead of 152-4 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21 st November 1969. 

B/42465 

Film : "View and Teach : Planning Oral Work” (English) 

U-43796 dt. 20-1-65 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165 -00 m. instead of 152-4 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21 st November 1969. 

B/42435 

Film : “View and Teach : Practice With Picture Sets” (English') 

U-43785 dt. 20-1-65 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 165-00 m. instead of 152-4 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 21st November 1969. 


CALCUTTA 


C/6462 Paschimbanga Sarka- 
rer Sambad Chitra — 4 
(Bengali) (35 mm) 
(India). 


C/6458 Aaram (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India.) 


C/6459 Aaram (Col.) (Assa- 
mese) (35 mm) (India ) 


C/6460 Bahadur (Col.) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


C/6461 Bahadur (Col.) (Assa- 
mese) (35 mm) (India) 


304-80(1) 

Little Cinema 
cutta) Private 
9/1, Lovelock 
Calcutta-19. 

(Cal- 

Ltd., 

Place, 

91-44(1) 

Screen & Publicities, 
6-A, Sakiat Place, 
Calcutta-1 3. j 

91-44(1) 

Do. 


158-49(1) 

Do. 


158-49(1) 

Do. 



U 

Little Cinema (Cal- 58455 

cutta) Private Ltd., 

9/1, Lovelock Place, 20-11-69 
Calcutta-19. 


U 

Screen & Publicities, 58456 

6-A, Sakiat Place, 

Calcutta-13. 20-11-69 

U 

Do. 58457 


20-11-69 

U 

Do. 58458 


20-11-69 

U 

Do. 58459 


20-11-69 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1781 





1782 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. j 4 


l 


2 


3 4 


5 


6 


7 


U 


B/58053 

SP/H/5 (The Mechani- 
cal Equivalent Of 

Heat) (Silent) (Col.) 

(8 mm.) (U.K.). 

18-59(1) 

Macmillan & Co. Ltd., 
276, Honyby Rd., 
Bombay. 

ICEM London, (U. K.) 

59580 

24-11-69 


B/58148 

“Hook Line And 

Sinker” (Col.) 

(English) (35 mm.) 
(U.S.A.). 

2514-90(5) 

Columbia Films of 
India Ltd., Metro 
House, M. G. Rd., 
Bombay. 

Jerry Lewis,- (U.S.A.) 

U 

59581 

25-11-69 


B/58270 

Trailer of “Hook Line 
And Sinker” (Col.) 
(English) (35 mm.) 
(U.S.A.). 

77-42(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59582 

25-11-69 


B/58336-41 

“Wise Farmers Use 
Everest Asbestos 

Cement” (Col.) (35 
mm.) (India). 

29 -87(1) 

Trio Films, Jyoti 

Studios, Kennedy 

Bridge, Bombay-7. 

Trio Films, Bombay-7 

U 

59583 

25-11-69 

Valid for English, 
Bengali, Tamil, 

Telugu, Kannada 
& Malayalam 

versions. 

B/58329 

“Har Kadam Par 
Kamyabi” (Col.) 

(Hindi) (35 mm.) 
(India). 

29 -87(1) 

Mahendra Batra, 

Bajarang House, 

3rd Rd., Santacruz 
East, Bombay-55. 

Focus Films, 679 

Block ‘U\ New - 

Airport, Calcutta-53. 

U 

59584 

25-11-69 

— 

B/58330 

“Safal Jeevan” (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm.) 
(India). 

29 -87(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59585 

25-11-69 

— 

B/58324-25 

“News Flash” (35 
mm.) (India). 

30 -48(1) 

Radio Advertising 

Service, Cecil Court, 
Lansdowne Rd., 

Bombay-1. 

Radio Advertising 

Service. Bombay-!. 

U 

59586 

25-1 1-69 

Valid for English, 
& Kannada ver- 
sions. 

B/5S323 

“The Complete Food" 
(English) (35 mm.) 
(India). 

29 -85(1) 

Advertising & Sales 
Promotion Co., C/o 
F. B. Production, 
Film Centre. 68, 
Tardeo Rd., Bom- 
bay-34. 

F. B. Productions, 

Film Centre, 68, - 
Tardeo Rd., Bom- 
bay-34. 

U 

59587 

25-11-69 


B/58334 

“Apollo 12 : A 

Briefing” (English) 

(16 mm.) tU.S.A.). 

328 -57(1) 

United States In- 

formation Service, 
Fazal Bhoy House, 
Marine Lines, 

Bombay. 

The United Slates In- 
formation Agencv. - 
(U.S.A.). 

U 

59588 

25-11-69 


B/58265 

“U.S.A. In .Black 
And White” 

(English) (16 mm.) 
(U.S.A.). 

447-14(1) 

Do. 

U.S. Information 

Agency, Washington - 
D.C. 

U 

59589 

25-11-69 

— 


B/58266 

B/58274 


B/58335 


“Art For Tomoriow" 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm.) (U.S.A.). 

“The Science Report 
95 B” (English) 
(16 mm.) (US. A.). 

“Pujarin” (Hindi) 
(35 mm.) ( India). 




U 

271 -27(1) 

Do. A Production of C. 

BS News, (U.S.A. ). - 

59590 — 

25-1 1-69 

U 

157 -09(1) 

Do. P.obert Foster, 

(U.S.A ). 

59591 — 

25-1 1-69 

U 

3988 -00(14) 

Mayur Productions, Vipin Desai. Bombav- 
Mayur Talkies, 67. " - 

59592 With triangle mark. 


Kandivli, Bombay- 
67. 

26-11-69 


Endorsement — 

Original length— 3991 -35 m. 

Delete the following words as spoken by Rain during his scenes with brother-in-law and Ganga : 

Reel IV- — Ram— “Aaj ki raat aap hi chale jayiye na“. 

— ' “Aap chale jayiye kal se main chala jaoo.iga” (implying visit to Ganga)— 3 -35 m. 

Reel V— Ram— Ab aap hi batayiye na mujhe aap ke saath kya Kama chahiye ? (Underlined words). 
(Sound only) 

Length of deletions — 3 -35 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will 6e— 3988 -00 m. 







1784 


THE GA2ETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. 4 








1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


B/58296 


B/58298 


B/ 5 8295 


B/58294 


B/58297 


B/57627 


B/57375 


B/5S378 


B/58377 


B/58376 


B/58379 


B/58236 


"Form In Function” 
(Cinemascope) (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(Sweden). 

"Malmo Gateway To 
The North” (Cinema- 
scope) (Col.) 

(English) (16 mm.) 
(Sweden). 

"Song Of A City” 
(Cinemascope) (Col.) 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(Sweden). 

“Portrait Of Stoc- 
kholm” (Cinema- 
scope) (Col.) 

(English) (16 mm.) 
(Sweden). 


“Mushrooms In 

Sweden” (Cinema- 
scope) (Co 1.) 

(English) (16 mm.) 
(Sweden). 

Trailer of "Arabella” 
(Col.) (English) (35 
mm.) (U.S.A.). 


Endorsement — 


U 

121 -92(1) Royal Swedish Swedish institute, 59606 

Embassy, Nyaya Stockholm (Sweden) — — 

Marg, Chanakyapuri 27-11-69 

New Delhi-11, 

U 

152-40(1) Do. Do. 59607 


27-11-69 


U 

198-12(1) Do. Do. 59608 

27- J 1-69 
U 

182-88(1) Do. Do. 59609 

27-11-69 


U 

106-68(1) Do. A Radio Sweden 59610 

Production (Sweden). — — 

27-11-69 


U 

70 -71(1) Universal Pictures Maleno Ma] e notti, 59611 With triangle mark. 

India P. Ltd. Metro (U.S.A.). — 

House, M. G. Rd. 28-11-69 

Bombay-1 . 


Original length — 71 -93 m. 

Reduce to a flash scene of Arabella in her scene with Saverid, deleting close view of her exposed bosom — 1 -2 2 m. 
(Length retained— 0 -30 m.). 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 70 -71 m. 

549-00(1) Asstt. Purchase 
Officer, Bhabha 
Atomic Research 
Centre, Purchase 
Division, 3rd floor, 

Mohatta Bldg., Palton 
Rd., Bombay-1. 


“Radiation 

Protec- 

tion In 

Nuclear 

Medicine” 

(Col.) 

(Ujf.A.). 

(16 mm) 

“Medical 

Research 

Reactor” 

(Col.) 

(English) 

(U.S.A.). 

(16 mm.) 


“Radioisotopes In 
Medical Diagnosis 
& Investigation” 
(Col.) (English) (16 
mm.) (U.K.). 

"Personnel Moni- 
toring'” (English) (16 
mm.) (Austria). 


“A Matter Of Con- 
tamination Sense” 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.). 


“The Extraordinary 
Seaman” (Panavi- 

sion) (Colour) 

(English) (35 mm.) 
(U.S.A.). 


243 -84(1) Do. 

365-76(1) Do. 

243-84(1) Do. 

182-88(1) Do. 


U.S. Navy Training 
Film, (U.S.A.). 


Audio Production 
Inc. (U.S.A.). 


The U.K. Atomic 
Energy Authority, 
(U.K.). 


The International 
Atomic Agency 
(Documentary Film 
of Norway) 

(Austria). 


The U.K. Atomic 
Energy A uthority 
(G. Buckland Smith) 
(U.K.). 


2,314-04(9) Metro Goldwyn Metro Goldwyn Mayer, 
Mayer India Ltd. (U.S.A.). 

Metro House, M.G. 

Rd. Bombay. 


U 

59612 


28-11-69 


U 

59613 


28-1 1-69 


U 

59614 


28-11-69 


U 

59615 


28-11-69 


U 

59616 


28-11-69 


U 

59617 


29-11-69 







1786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. 4 


i 




3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


C/6303 

C/6304 

C/6305 

C/6306 


VERSIONS 

B/58080 

f7/m — “American On The Moon” (English). 

U-59350 dated 22-10-1969. 

This certificate is valid also for the exhibition of the colour version of the film. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969. 

B/58326 

Film — “Meet The Champion” (Eng., Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu & Malayalam) (Col.). 

U-59377 dated 29-10-69. 

This certificate is valid also for Kannada version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969. 

B/58333 

Film — “Jiwacha Mittar” (Marathi & Kannada). 

U-52772 dated 3-2-68. 

This certificate is valid also for Hindi version of the film. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969. 

CORRECTIONS 

B/58108 

Film —“African Safari” (English) (Colour). 

U-59380 dated 30-10-69. 

Number of Reels on the face of the certificate may be read as 10 instead of 11. Length of the film remains un- 
altered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 25th November 1969. 

B/57450 

Film — “Mukkam Post Dhebewadi” (Marathi). 

U-58055 dated 14-8-69. 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 4214 16 m. in 16 Reels instead of 4I96T8 m in 
14 Reels. 

The certificate was endorsed on 25th November 1969. 

B/57975 

Film — “Nandini” (Marathi). 

U-59328 dated 20-10-69. 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 3792 -63 m. instead of 3779 -52 m. 
The certificate was endorsed on 25th November 1969. 

B/57526 

Film — “How To Give Instructions” (Eng.). 

U-58263 dated 8-9-69. 

The title of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as “Instructions or Obstructions” instead of “How To 
Give Instructions”. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 26th November 1969. 

B/48894 

Film -“View And Teach — No. 14-Too Much And Not Enough” (English). 

U-49738 dated 6-2-67. 

Actual length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 175 00 m. instead of— 161 -64 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 28th November 1969. 


Les Grenades (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 


Danses Z ighawa (Co- 
lour) (French) (1 6 
mm) (France). 

Fils du Sobil (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 


Documents Sur Une 
Lmgue SiffleePyre- 
neennee (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 


CALCUTTA 


440 00(1) 

Cultural Counsellor, J. Frapat, France. 
French Embassy, 

New Delhi. 

U 

58463 

24-11-69 

300 00(1) 

Do. M. J. and .1. Tubiana 

U 

58464 



24-11-69 

180 -00(1) 

Do. E. Hayem 

U 

58465 



24-11-69 

210 00(1) 

Do. Institut National De 

La Recherche Agro- 
nomique. 

U 

58466 

24-11-69 



1787 


Fart III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

C/6307 

L’Erosion Pluviale Et 

175 -00(1) 

Cultural Counsellor, 

Insttut N'.tion 1 De 

U 

58467 


C/6463 

L’ Agriculture Cent- 
rafricane (Colour) 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 

Saphalta Ki Rah (Co- 

29 -77(1) 

French Embassy, La Recherche Agro- 

New Delhi. nomique. 

Focus Films, 679, Block Focus Films, 679, 

24-11-69 

U 

58468 


C/6464 

lour) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 

Saphalta Ka Rahasya 

29 -77(1) 

‘O’, New Alipore, Block ‘O’, New Ali- 
Calcutta. pore, Calcutta. 

Do. Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58469 


C/6465 

(Colour) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 

Cherry Blossom (Co- 

29 -77(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58470 


C/6466 

lour) (English) (35 
mm) (India), 

How To Succeed (Co- 

29 -77(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58471 


C/6467 

lour) (English) (35 
mm) (India). 

Saphalyer Chabikathi 

29 -77(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58472 


C/6448 

(Colour) (Bengali) 

(35 mm) (India). 

Andhere Ka Saathi 

30 -00(1) 

Dayabhai Bhakta, 529, 

Dayabhai Bhakta, 529, 

25-11-69 

U 

58473 


C/6449 

(Colour) (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 

Andhakarer Mukti 

30 00(1) 

Jodhpur Park, Cal- 
cutta-31. 

Do. 

Jodhpur Park, Cal- 
cutta-31. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58474 


C/6450 

(Colour) (Bengali) 

(35 mm) (India). 

Andhari Raat No 

30 00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58475 


C/6451 

Saathi (Colour) 

(Gujarati) (35 mm) 
(India). 

Endharar Mukti (Co- 

30 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58476 


C/6452 

lour) (Assamese) 

(35 mm) (India). 

Audharya Cha Sobati 

30 00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58477 


C/6453 

(Colour) (Marathi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

Nisha Sahayi (Colour) 

30 00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58478 


C/6454 

(Malyalam) (35 mm) 
(India). 

Cheekati Lo Snehitudu 

30 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58479 


C/6455 

(Colour) (Telugu) 

(35 mm) (India). 

Eravin Nauban (Co- 

30 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-11-69 

U 

58480,*. 


C/6456 

lour) (Tamil) (35 
mm) (India). 

Andha Kardha Gelaya 

30 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

25-1 1-69 

U 

58481 


C/6308 

(Colour) (Kannada) 

(35 mm) (India). 

La Methode Statistique 

296 -00(2) 

Cultural Counsellor, 

L’ Institut Des Sde- 

25-11-69 

U 

58482 


C/6309 

(Colour) (French) 

(16 mm) (France). 

La Chromatographie 

145 -00(1) 

French Embassy, 
New Delhi. 

Do. 

nces Humaines Et 
Appliquees, Univer- 
site De Bordeaux. 

The Scientific Research 

25-11-69 

U 

58483 


D’ Adsorption (Co- 
lour) (French) (16 
mm) (France). 



Film Service. 

25-11-69 



M299GI/70— 12 




1788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. 4 


— 

[ 

it 



' 

— 




1 

2 

3 


Tf 

5 

6 

7 


u 

C/6311 Vitesses Radiates 185-00(1) Cultural Counsellor Centre National De La 58484 

(French) (16 mm) French Embassy, Recherche Scienti- 

(France). New Delhi. fique. 25-1 1 -69 

U 

C/6312 Le Fibrogramme (Co- 197 00(1) Do. Le Centre Condorcet 58485 

lour) (French) 

(16 mm) (France). 25-11-69 


C/6415 

C/6314 

C/6315 

C/6316 

C/6317 

C/6318 

C/6319 

C/6320 

C/6326 

C/6327 


Sheela (Bengali) 

(35 mm) (India). 


U 

3,268 -37(12) Kine Unit, 7, Durga Nimesh Roy, Nirmal 58486 

Charan Baneijee Baneijce, Cl o. Kine 

Street, Calcutta-5. Unit, 7, Durga 25-11-69 
Charan Banerjee 
Street, Calcutta-5. 


Introduction To The 
Law of Large Num- 
ber (Colour) (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 

The Multinomial For- 
mula ( Colour ) 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 

Pascal’s Triangle 
(Colour) (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 


Introduction To Space 
Geometry (French) 
(1 6 mm) (France). 


La Methode lonogra- 
phique En Physique 
Corpusulaire (Co- 
lour) (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 


Couleurs Interferen- 

tielles Descoli- 

leris (Colour) (Fren- 
ch) (16 mm) (France). 

Interferometrie A Pola- 
risation (Colour) (No 
dialogue or song or 
commentary) (16 
mm) (France). 


Epitaxie Et Noyauk 
Glacogenes (Colour) 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 


220(1) 

Cultural Counsellor, 
French Embassy, 

New Delhi. 

Le Centre Condorcet. 

U 

58487 

28-11-69 

153(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

58488 




28-11-69 

165(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

58489 




28-11-69 

110(1) 

Do. 

A. Biguenet and A. 
Fouche. 

U 

58490 

28-11-69 

300(1) 

Do. 

Centre De Recherches 
Nucleaire. 

U 

58491 

28-11-69 

90(1) 

Do. 

M. Francon 

U 

58492 




28-11-69 

87(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

58493 




28-11-69 

181(1) 

Do. 

Filmtec 

U 

58494 




28-11-69 


L’lnterferometre De- 315(1) 

michelson (Colour) 

(French) (16 mm) 

(France). 


U 

Do. L’EcoleNormale Supe- 58495 

rieure. Saint Cloud. — — — - 
28-11-69 


M/5744 


M/5779 


MADRAS 


‘Vetri Tiruntagan’ 3961 -49(17) Sree Kalpanalaya, Miss. K. Vasanti, 
(Tamil) (35 mm) Madras. Madras. 

(B & W) (India). 

‘Bhale Basava’ (Kan- 4551 -62(17) Vikram Productions, Vikram Productions, 
nada) (35 mm) 42, G. N. Chetti 42, G. N. Chetti 

(Orwocolour) (India). Road, Madras-17. Road, Madras-17. 


U 

65011 — 

24-11-69 

U 

6501 2 With triangle mark. 
24-11-69 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 65012-U dated 24-11-69 issued to the film Bhale Basava (Kannada) (Otwocolour). 


Length as in the application . — 4558 -00 Metres. 



PMt HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1789 



Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 2 — At the end of the song, delete shots showing the pointed breasts in a 

side view of Ganga and also when she is lying down. (Appd. replacement with 1 -20 
sky-shots 1 -20 and 1 -52) . 1-52 

2. Reel 3 — Delete the shot of the Pallav of Lakshmi’s sari falling down when she 

gives coffee to Sankar 1-52 

3. Reel 4 — Delete the shot when Sankar and Sobha make love, the cheek to cheek 
posture and his lying over Sobha on her side. (Appd. replacement with 

flower shots 3 -13) ........... 3-12 

4. Reel 12 — Delete shots where Sankar pulls the sari of Sobha exposing her busts 
and later pressing his cheek with hers and kissing her. (Appd. replacement with 

flower shots (2 -13) . . . . . . . . . . . 2 13 

5. Reel 16 — Delete shot of molesting Lakshmi by Sankar, and the shot where she 

is shown lying on the ground with Sankar’s legs crossed over her . . . 4-86 


Total Cuts . . 14-35 


Total replacements — 7 -97 Metres. 

The actual length of the film after cuts and appd. replacements will be — 4551 -62 Metres in 17 Reels. 

U 

M/5787 ‘Vedalam Sonna Ka- 4133 -08(16) Manorama Movies, Manorama Movies, 65013 With triangle mark. 

thai’ (Tamil) (35 mm) 2-1 /B, Eldams Road, 2/1 -B, Eldams Road, 

(B&W) (India). Madras-18. Madras-18. 24-11-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 6501 3-U, dated 24th November 1969 — issued to the film ‘Vedalam Sonna Kathai’ (Tamil). 
Length as in the application. — 4145 -28 Metres. 

Cut — Metres 

Reel 13 — Reduce (by 25 %) the fighting scene between Kalabhairavan and Jayavik- 

raman 12-19 

Actual length of the film after the cut will be — 4133 -09 Metres in 16 Reels. 

U 

M/5789 ‘Mannippu’ (Tamil) 3946-88(14) Mohan Productions, Mohan Productions, 65014 With triangle mark. 

(35 mm) (B & W) 5, Ramaswami Iyer 5, Ramaswami Iyer 

(India). Street, Madras-6. Street, Madras-6. 25-11-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65014-U, dated 25th November 1969 issued to ‘Mannippu' (Tamil) 35 mm B&W. 
Length as in the application — 3960 -26 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 1 — When the woman is shown bathing in water, delete shots showing her 
busts prominently in wet clothes, and delete the shots of the man who comes to 

molest her, catching hold of her violently 8-52 

2. Reel 5 — In the dream sequence (love-making of Banu and Gopi), delete the shot 
where there is a suggestion of kissing and also the hugging and falling over each 

other in the park. (Approved replacement 2 -13) 2-13 

3. Reel 11— Delete the shot where barber (Nallamuthu) in his nightmare, hugs the 

sack (which obviously is the reference to the dead body of Radha) . . 4-86 


Total Cuts . . 15-51 


M/5785 


Actual length of the film after cuts and appd. replacement will be — 3946 -88 Metres in 14 Reels. 


‘Mattukara Velan’ 
(Tamil) (35 mm) 
(Eastmancolour) 
(India). 


U 

4748-48(16) Jayanthi Films Jayanthi Films P. Ltd. 65015 With triangle mark. 

(Madurai) P. Ltd., 10, Lake. 3rd Cross — - 

10, Lake, 3rd, Cross Street, Madras-34. 26-11-69 

Street, Madras-34. 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 65015-U, dated 26th November 1969 — issued to the film ‘Mattukara Velan’ (Tamil) (East- 
mancolour). 


Length as in the application — 4748 -48 Metres. Metres 

Cut — 

Reel 10 — Song 4 — In the song beginning with ‘Poo Vaitha Poovaikku Pookkal 
Sondhama’, delete the shots where Raghu and Kamala embrace each other 
rather tightly, and one falling over the other. (Appro ved A replaccmcnt with 
flower-shots. 3 -04) 3 -04 

The actual length of the film, therefore remains the same, namely — 4748-48 Metres in 16 Reels. 

U 

M/5793 ‘Ekaveera’ (Telugu) 4761 -00(18) Padma Films, 2, Cor- Shri D. L. Narayana, 65016 

(35 mm) (B & W) poration High School 2, Corporation High 

(India). Road, Madras-34. School Road, 26-11-69 

Madras-34. 




1790 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIK A 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. A 






- - ' - - ~ - 



1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


u 

M/5796 ‘Koottu Kudumbam’ 3957 -24(14) Udaya Studios, Allep- Udaya Studios, Allep- 65017 With triangle mark. 

(Malayalam) (35 mm) pey (Kerala). pey (Kerala). 

(B & W) (India). 27-11-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 6501 7-U, dated 27-11-69 issued to the film ‘Koottu Kudumbam’ (Malayalam) 


M/5795 


M/5781 


Length as in the application — 3960 -88 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 1 — Delete the dialogue of Unnithan saying “Seetha Kaattru Adichal 
Garbham Undagunna Onnineyaane Deivam Enikku Vidhichirukkunnu’. (God 
has given me one who becomes pregnant with the blowing of cool breeze). 

(Sound only) ........... 

2. Reel 4 — Delete the shot of Radhaki ishna spanking Syamala on her boltom with 

his hand 1-52 

3. Reel 5 — Delete the shot of Appukuttan resting his chest on the left of Thangamma. 0 -91 

4. Reel 7 — Reduce the shots of Govindan Nair beating his wife Saraswathi on her 

back, after throwing the plate of Kanji ...... 1-21 


Total Cuts . . 3-64 


Actual length of the film after the cuts will be— 3957 -24 Metres in 14 Reels. 

U 

‘Karpoora Harathi’ 4695-44(17) Srikant Productions, Srikant Productions, 65018 With triangle mark. 

(Telugu) (35 mm) 14, Poes Road, 14, Poes, Road, 

(B & W) (India). Madras-18. Madras-18. 27-11-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65018-U dated 27-11-69 issued to the film ‘Karpoora Harathi’ (Telugu). 


Length as in the application — 4710 -68 Metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1 . Reel 4— Delete the shot where, after being shown on separate mats, Ranganna 
comes to Sita and lies over her, and reduce the duration of the shot showing 

their legs entwined 3 04 

2. Reel 6— Delete the dialogue of Pankajam saying “Naaku Latak Latak Man- 

thuvandi” 5-82 

3. Reel 13 — Delete close-up shot of Rani with the doctor where her breast nipple 

is shown 3 04 

4. Reel 14 — In the dream-sequence, delete shot of Rani and Vasu hugging each 

other with breasts shown prominently ........ 

5. Reel 14 — In the same dream sequence, delete shot showing Rani sitting and 

Vasu resling his head on her bosom 3-34 


Total Cuts . . 15 -24 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be — 4695 -44 Metres in 17 Reels. 


‘Virunnukari’ (Malaya- 3931-35(15) Shanthashri, 6, Palat Shanthashri. 6, Palat 65019 With triangle mark. 

lam) (35 mm) (B & Sankaran Nair Road, Sankaran Nair Road, 

W) (India). Madhavan Nair Co- Madhavan Nair Co- 27-11-69 

lony, Madras-34. lony, Madras-34. 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 6501 9-U, dated 27th November 1969— issued to the film ‘Virunnukari’ 
(Malayalam). 


Length as in the application — 3956 -30 Metres. 

Cuts . — Metres 

1. Reel 2 — Delete the words uttered by Swamy “In spite of family planning’’, where 

he refers to his eight children ......... 2-74 

2. Reel 5 — Delete the shot where the bust of Shanti is shown very prominently 

when she is standing together with Sethu 6-69 

3. Reel 6 — Delete the reference in the dialogue of Swamy where he says that police 

and Ministers are in his hands ......... 6-39 

4. Reel 6 — Delete the dialogue of Swamy with Radha where he states that delivery 

of children by his wife should be put an end to. (Edayalum Madyamavathi 
Ragathinde Perittu Ende Wifeindey Prasavam Niruthanam Ennane Aag- 
raham) ............ 3-04 

5. Reel 7 — Reduce drastically (by 75%) the beating scene of Shanti by her parents 

when they find out that she has become pregnant ..... 6 -09 


Total Cuts . . 24 -95 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be — 3931 -35 Metres in 15 Reels. 



P^rt III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1791 


M/5792 ‘Government of Tamil- 
nadu Regional News- 
reel Bulletin 1 8’ 
(Tamil) (35 mm) 
(B & W) (India). 


295-00(1) Principal, Institute of 
Film Technology, 
Madras. 


Principal, Institute of 65020 

Film Technology, 

Madras.- 27-11-69 


M/5790 ‘Vaa Raja Vaa’ (Tamil) 
(35 mm) (Eastman- 
colour) (India). 


4194 -00(18) C. N. V. Productions, 
62/2, Mowbrays 
Road, Madras-1 8. 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central 

6th December 1969. 


C. N.-V. Productions, 65021 — 

62/2, Mowbrays 

Road, Madras-1 8. 28-1 1 -69 

Board of Film Censors during the Week ending 


BOMBA r 


B/58374 “Atomic Physics” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


1024(5) Asstt. Purchase Officer, 
Bhabha Atomic Re- 
search Centre, Pur- 
chase Division, 3rd 
floor, Mohatta Build- 
ing, Palton Road, 
Bombay-1 . 


A Gaumont British 59621 

International Ltd. • 

Production, (U.S.A.). 1-12-69 


B/58142 

“Elsa The Lioness” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.K.). 

335 -27(1) 

National Education 
& Information 

Films Ltd., National 
House, Tulloch 

Road, Bombay. 

B.B.C. (David A 
Kenborough) (U.K.). 

59622 

1-12-69 


B/58478 

Trailer of “Jungle 
King” (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

90 -83(1) 

Prakash Aggarwal, 

C/o Bombay Lab. 
Pvt. Ltd., Dadar, 
Bombay-28. 

J. L. Prasher, 14, 
Khar Road, Bombay. 

U 

59623 

1-12-69 

— 

B/58431 

“For Mothers Who 
Care A Little More” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 

29 -87(1) 

Widescreen, Shirin, 
Colaba Post Office, 
Bombay. 

Widescreen, Bombay. 

U 

59624 

1-12-69 

Valid for English, 
Hindi, , Gujarati, 
Tamil and Mala- 
yalam versions. 

B/58429 

Trailer of “Chitty 
Chitty Bang Bang” 
Super panavision) 
(Colour) (English) 

(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

104 -85(1) 

20th Century Fox 
Corp. (I) P. Ltd., 
Metro House, M.G. 
Road, Bombay. 

Albert R. Broccoli, 
(U.S.A.). 

U 

59625 

2-12-69 


B/58305 

“Forest Regions Of 
Canada” (Colour) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(Canada). 

198(1) 

Office Of The High 
Commissioner for 
Canada, New Delhi. 

The National Film 
Board Of Canada, 
(Canada). 

U 

59626 

2-12-69 

— 

B/58306 

“What In The World 

Is Water?” (Colour) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(Canada). 

137(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

59627 

2-12-69 

— 

B/58092 

“Fee Fie Foes” (Car- 
toon) (Colour) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 

184 -10(1) 

Columbia Films of 
India Ltd., Metro 
House, M.G. Road, 
Bombay- 1. 

Joseph Barbera and 
William Hanna, 

(U.S.A.). 

U 

59628 

2-12-69 

— 

B/58091 

“Zoo Is Company” 
(Cartoon) (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.) 

184-10 

Do. 

William Hanna and 
Joseph Barbera, 

(U.S.A.). 

U 

59629 

2-12-69 

— 

B/58089 

“Picnics Are Fun” 
(Cartoon) (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

199-34(1) 

Do. 

Stephen Bosustow, 

(U.S.A.). 

U 

59630 

2-12-69 

— - 

B/58090 

“On Location With : 
Run Wild Run Free” 
(Colour) (English) 

(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

167 -64(1) 

Columbia Films Of 
India Ltd., Metro 
House, M. G. Road, 
Bombay. 

Irving Allen (U.S.A.) 

U 

59631 

2-12-69 

— 



THE GAZETTE OF INtMA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part 111— Sec, 4 



B/58353 “Topol : (Featurette 

Of “Before Winter 
Comes”) (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

B/58242 “Tall, Dark And 

Gruesome” (English) 
(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

B/58428 “Chitty Chitty, Bang 

Bang” (Colour) 
(Super panavision) 
(English) (70 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

B/58359 Trailer of “Moon Zero 

Two” (Colour) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) 
(London). 

B/58498 “Uttar Pradesh Sama- 

char No. 3” (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


134 T 1(1) Columbia Films of Professional Films Inc. 
India Ltd. Meto (U.S.A.). 

House, M. G. Rd., 

Bombay. 


453 -54(1) 


Hugh McCollum, 
(U.S.A.). 


4943-55(18) 20th Century Fox Albert R. Broccoli, 
Corp. (1) P. Ltd., (U.S.A.). 

Metro House, M.G. 

Road, Bombay. 


66-14(1) Warner Bros. Seven Michael Carreras, 
Arts (F.E.) Inc. Eros (London). 

Building Churchgate, 

Bombay. 

289 -56(1) J. R. Chaturvedi, Di- Mahesh Prasad, Govt. 

rector of Informa- of U.P., Lucknow. 

tion, Govt, of Uttar 

Pradesh. 


2-12-69 


2-12-69 

U 

59634 

2-12-69 


2-12-69 


3-12-69 


B/58430 


B/58484-85 


B/58494 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1104” (35 mm) 
(India). 

“Maharashtra News 
No. 210 November 
1969” (35 mm) 

(India). 

“Beti — Tumahre Jaisi” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 


180-67(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24, Peddar of India, Bombay-26. 

Road, Bombay-26. 

301(1) Director of Publicity, Director of Publicity, 
Govt, of Mahara- Govt, of Mahara- 
shtra, Sachivalya, shtra, Bombay-32. 

Bombay-32. 

3463 -75(14) The Cultural Film Mahendra Nath, 
Society, A/2, Ma- Bombay-50, 

dhuba, St. Andrens 
Road Bandra, 

Bombay-50. 


B/57657 Trailer of “Hang ‘Em 66-64(1) 20th Century Fox Leonard Freeman, 

High” (Colour) Corp. (1) P. Ltd., (U.S.A.). 

(English) (35 mm) Metro House, M. G. 

(U.S.A.). Road, Bombay. 

Endorsement — 

Original length — 67 -06 m. 

Delete the scene showing the man’s face bulging out when the rope tightens 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 66 -64 m. 


59637 Valid for 14 versions 

3-12-69 

U 

59638 Valid for Marathi 
and Hindi Versions. 

3-12-69 


3-12-69 


59640 With triangle mark. 
3-12-69 


around his neck. — 0 -42 m. 


B/57348 


B/ 47658 


Trailer of “The Birds, 
The Bees And The 
Italians”. 


66 -87(1) 20th Century Fox Robert Haggiag & 
Corp. (I) P. Ltd., Pietro Germi 

Metro House, M. G. (U.S.A.). 

Road. Bombay 


Endorsement — 

Original length — 67 -67 m. 

Delete the shot of a topless girl doing striptease.— 0 -80 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 66 -87 m. 


Trailer of “The Gra- 
duate” (Panavision) 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

Endorsement — 


101 -50(1) 20th Century Fox Lawrence 
Corp. (I) P. Ltd. (U.S.A.). 
Metro House, M. G. 

Road, Bombay. 


Original length — 106 -68 m. 

Delete the scene between Benjamin and the mother on the bed. — 5 -18 Hi. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 101 -50 m. 


59641 With triangle mark. 
3-12-69 


Turman, 59642 With triangle mark. 
3-12-69 


B/58463 


“Bon” (Colour) (35 
mm) (India). 


30 -48(1) Hema Productions, Hema Productions, 
51-52, The National Bombay-16. 

Storage P. Ltd., Mo- 
gul Lane, Mahim, 

Bombay-16. 


59643 Valid for English, 

— Hindi, Marathi, 

3-12-69 Gujarati, & Ben- 
gali versions. 



Bart III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1793 


B/58476 “155 Miles An Hour 

Under A Single Phase 
Catenary” (Colour) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(France). 


201(1) H. N. Srivastava, R.D. S.N.C.F. (France). 
S.O. Alawbagh, 

Lucknow-5. 


3-12-69 


B/58474 “Securite Vitesse 

(Safety At Speed)” 
(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (France). 

B/58477 “A Race Against 

Time” (English) 
(16 mm) (France). 

B/58475 “De L’autorial Au 

Turbotrain (From 
Railcar to the Turbe- 
rail) (Colour) (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) 

(France). 

B/58442 “Good For Your 

Skin” (Colour) 
(35 mm) (India). 


30 -48(1) Jaisons Advertising, Short Prints, Bombay- 
305, Y. M. Road, 3. 

Bombay-3. 


3-12-69 


3-12-69 

U 

59647 

3-12-69 


59648 Valid for English 

& Hindi versions. 

3-12-69 


B/58496 “Story Of Steel” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 


453(2) Jasmine Films, 305, Y. A Tata Film by Jas- 
M. Road, Bombay-3. mine Films, Bombay-3. 


3-12-69 


B/58495 “Tongue In Cheek” 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58497 “Safalta Ka Raz” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


576-07(2) Satya Dev Dubey, B- Swati Chitra, Bom- 59650 

504 Surya Apart- bay-26. 

ments, Bhulabhai 4-12-69 

Desai Road, Bom- 
bay-26. 

U 

30-48(1) Ama Private Ltd., Ama Private Ltd., 59651 

Canada Bldg. Horn- Bombay. — 

by Road, Bombay. 4-12-69 


B/58518 “Breed For The Fu- 
ture” (Colour) (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) (Eng- 
land). 


283(1) T. S. Pruthi, Under Beecham Research 
Secretary, I.C.A.R. International (Eng- 
New Delhi. land). 


B/58144 


B/57892 


“Prime Minister Mrs. 
Indira Gandhi’s Visit 
To Japan” (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 

“Jitna Chotta Ho 
Parivar” (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 


429-15(2) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 59653 

of India, 24, Peddar of India, Bombay-26. • 

Road, Bombay-26. 4-12-69 


213-36(1) Triveni Pictures, 109, Sant Dhawan, Triveni 59654 

Famous Cine Bldg., Pictures, Bombay-11. 

Hains Road, Maha- 4-12-69 

laxrni, Bombay-1 1 . 


B/58424 “Expo’70 : Getting 
Ready To Roll” 
(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (Japan). 


B/58488 “Sitaron Ki Mehfil” 
(Colour) (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


106 -68(1) Japan Air Lines, Cha- 
teau Windsor, 86, 
Veer Nariman Road, 
Churchgate, Bom- 
bay-20. 


Japan National Tou- 
rist Organisation, 
(Japan). 


387 -10(2) Beekay Deejay & Kam- Beekay Deejay & Kam- 
ran Films, 139, Fa- ran Films, Bombay- 
mous Studio, Bom- 11. 
bay-11. 


4-12-69 


59656 With triangle mark. 
4-12-69 


Endorsement — 

Original length — 395 -33 m. 

Delete shot of kissing between Miss Kandall and Sashi Kapoor — 8 -23 m. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 387 -10 m. 


B/57954 “Jai-Jawan-Jai Ki- 
san” (Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


434-04(2) Antarrashtriya Rang- Gopal Mehra Antar- 
shala, Maina Cottage, rashtriya Rangshala, 
Shiram Nagar Lane, Delhi-32. 

Shahdra, Delhi-32. 


4-12-69 



1794 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec.4 



B/58490 

Trailer of “Franken- 
stein” (English) (35 
mm) (U.S.A.). 

46 -02(1) 

Universal Pictures 

India P. Ltd., Metro 
House, M. G. Road, 
Bombay. 

Universal Internation- 
al Films Inc., New 
York, (U.S.A.). 

B/58345 

“True Taste” (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 

(India). 

29 -87(1) 

Clarion Me Cann Ad- 
vertising Service Pvt. 
Ltd. Merchant Cham- 
bers, New Marine 
Line, Bombay. 

Jyoti G. Thakur, Film 
Media, 47, Laxmi As- 
surance Bldg., Sir P. 
M. Road, Fort, Bom- 
bay-1. 

B/58440 

“Krtek A Reketa (The 
Mole And The Ro- 
cket) (16 mm) (Cze- 
choslovakia). 

105 -20(1) 

National Education & 
Information Films 
Ltd., National House, 
Tultoch Road, Bom- 
bay. 

Czechoslovak Films, 
(Czechoslovakia). 

B/57983 

“Computer Units” 

(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

273 -40(1) 

Do. 

Gudio Productions 

Inc. (U.S.A.). 

B/57982 

“Logic Elements Cir- 
cuits” (Colour) (Eng- 
lish) (1 6 mm) (US. A.). 

213 -35(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/58438 

“Zazili Jsme Beztizny 
Stav (State Of 

(Weightlessness) 

(Czech) (16 mm) 

(Czechoslovakia). 

146 -40(2) 

Do. 

Czechoslovak Films, 
(Czechoslovakia). 

B/58436 

“Barevne Kovy (Non 
Ferrous Metals) 

(Czech) (16 mm) 

(Czechoslovakia). 

182 -80(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/58441 

“Osciloskop (Oscillos- 
cope)” (Czech) (16 
mm) (Czechoslovakia). 

174 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do, 

B/58536 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1104-A (Special)” 
(35 mm) (India). 

243 -84(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24, Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay-26. 

B/57347 

“The Bird, The Bees, 
And The Italians” 
(Widescreen) (Eng- 
lish) (35 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 

Endorsement — 

2865 -64(12) 

20th Century Fox 
Corp. (1) P. Ltd., 
Metro House, M. G. 
Road, Bombay. 

Robert Haggiag & 
Pietro Germi, 

(U.S.A.). 


Original length — 2868 17 m. 

Reel II— Delete the shots of a topless girl during the striptease act. — 2 -53 m. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 2865 -64 m. 


B/57818 “Marlowe” (Wide- 2666 -69(12) Metro-Goldwyn Mayer Metro Goldwyn Ma- 
screen) (Colour) India Ltd., Metro yer, (U.S.A.). 

(English) (35 mm) House, M. G. Road, 

(U.S.A.). Bombay. 

B/57114 “Bedazzled” (Pana- 2816-65(11) 20th Century-Fox Stanley Donen, 

vision) (Colour) Corp. (I) P. Ltd., (U.S.A.). 

(English) (35 mm) Metro House, M. G. 

(U.S.A.). Road, Bombay. 

B/58327 “Happy Family Plan- 121 -92(1) Wyeth Laboratories Made by International 
ning” (16 mm) Ltd., Steelcrete Planned Parenthood 

(U.S.A.). House, D. W. Road, Federation on Grants, 

Bombay-20. (U.S.A.). 

ENDORSEMENTS 
ALTERATION UNDER RULE 34 

B/57254. 

Film — “Mouse Trapped” (Colour) (English). 

U-57922 dt. 2nd August 1969. 

This certificate is valid also for the exhibition of Black & White version of the film. 


U 

59658 

4- 12-69 
U 

59659 

5- 12-68 


U 

59660 Czech titles— Instru- 

mental Music 

5-12-69 only. 


U 

59661 

5-12-69 

U 

59662 

5-12-69 

U 

59663 
5-12-69 


U 

59664 — 

5-12-69 

U 

59665 — 

5- 12-69 
U 

59666 Valid for 14 ver- 
sions. 

6- 12-69 

A 

2633 With triangle mark. 
3-12-69 


A 

2634 ~ 

3-12-69 

A 

2635 — 

3-12-69 

A 

2636 Titles in English. 

No dialogue or 

5-12-69 commentary. Mu- 
sic only. 


1795 


Part HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (RARTIKA 2, 1892) 

■ ■ ■ =—■ — . -rwi— i r- 


1 2 3 4 5 6 


aes= 


-7 


The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 3rd December 1969. 

B/57255. 

Film — “Doc’s Last Stand” (Colour) (English). 

U-57923 dt. 2nd August 1969. 

This certificate is valid alSo for the exhibition of Black & White version of the film. 

The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 3rd December 1969. 

VERSIONS 

B/58451-57. 

Film — “All Time Healer” (Colour) (English) 

U-59499 dt. 18-11-69. 

This certificate is valid also for Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam versions of the 
film in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 1st December 1969. 

B/58468-73. 

Film — “The Complete Food” (English). 

U-59587 dt. 25-11-69. 

This certificate is valid also for Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film. The 
length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 1st December 1969. 

B/58444-50. 

Film — “A Familt Friend” (Colour) (English). 

U-59495 dt 18-11-69. 

This certificate is valid also for Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film 
in colour. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 1st December 1969. 


REFUSED CERTIFICATES 


B/55497 

“The Granada Grana- 
da” (English) (U.S. 
S.R.). (16 mm) . 

830(8) 

The U.S.S.R. Consu- 
late General, 20, 

Nepean Sea Road, 
Bombay-6. 

CALCUTTA 

Mosfilm Studios Pro- 
ductions, (U.S.S.R.). 

Refused by R. C. on 6th Decem- 
ber 1969. 

C/6470 

Jogajog (Colour) 22 -86(1) 

(Bengali) (35 mm) 

(India). 

Endorsement— 

This certificate is valid also for the 

Focus Films, 679 Focus Films, 679 
Block ‘O’ New Ali- Block ‘O’ New Ali- 
pore, Calcutta-53. pore, Calcutta-53. 

Marathi and Oriya versions of the film. 

U 

58496 

2-12-69 


C/6469 

Paheli Mulakat (Col.) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

22 -86(1) 

Focus Films, 679 
Block ‘O’ New Ali- 
pore, Calcutta-53. 

Focus Films, 679 
Block ‘O’ New Aii- 
pore, Calcutta-53. 

u 

58497 

2-12-69 

— 

C/6468 

Aleyer Alo (Bengali) 
(35 mm) (India). 

4176 -06(15) 

Unit Productions of 
India, 4, Baburam 
Ghose Road, Cal- 
cutta-40. 

Unit Productions of 
India, 4, Baburam 
Ghose Road, : Cal- 
cutta-40. 

U 

58498 

3-12-69 

— 

C/6328 

Synthese De L’ Am- 
moniac (French) (16 
mm) (France). 

219(1) 

Cultural Counsellor, 
French Embassy, New 
Delhi. 

Ecole Norm&le Super- 
ieafe. Saint Cloud. 

'U 

58499 

5-12-69 

— 

C/6329 

Fabrication Indus- 

trielle de L’ Acid 
Sulfarique Par le pre- 
cede de Contact 
(French) (16 mm) 

(France). 

175(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

58500 

5-12-69 


C/6330 

Les Interferences En 
Lumiere Naturelle 
(Colour) (French) 

(16 mm) (France). 

315(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

5850h 

5-12-69 

— 

C/6332 

Acoustique des Thea- 
tres Antiques (Col.) 
(French) (16 mm) 

(France). 

247(1) 

Do. 

F. Canac. 

U 

58502 

5-12-69 

— 


299GI/70 — 14 



1796 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part HI— Sec. 4 



M/5798 

M/5799 


MADRAS 


‘Sukhajeevanamu’ 
(Telugu) (35 mm) 
B&W. (India). 


‘Gandara Gandadu’ 

(Telugu) (35 mm) 

B. &W. (India). 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65023-U dated 4-12-69 issued to the film ‘Gandara Gandadu’ (Telugu) 35 mm. 
B. & W 

Length as in the application — 4288 -53 Metres. 

Metres 

Cuts — 

1. Reel 5 — Delete the following shots in the dance in the Vasanta Mantapam : 

(a) one girl exposing her legs upto the thigh (.304) 3-04 

(b) the prince putting his head on the bosom of the princess (1.52). . 1 -52 

(c) The prince passing his hand over the stomach of the Princess . . 1-52 

(Approved total replacement 6 -08) with sky shots. 

2. Reel 10 — Delete the following shots in the dance of Julapha. 

(a) where she shows her bottom — backview — and shaking it vigor- 
ously (1.52) 1-52 

(b) where she presses her busts with the male (1 .52) 1-52 

(c) where the male rests his chin on her bust (456) 4-56 

and (d) where she beds her body and putting in between the legs of the 

male . . 4-56 

(Approved replacement 12 46) with close-up of artistes. 

3. Reel 14 — Delete the following shots in the dance-song by the girl doing snake- 

dance: 

(a) shaking her bottom twice (3 04) 3-04 

and (b) shaking her breasts in a circular movement (3.04) .. .. 3-04 

(Approved replacement 6 -08), with close-up of the hero) 


Total Cuts 24-32 


367 -00(1) Venkatranga Produc- 
tions, Hyderabad. 


4288 -53(16) 


Sanjee\ ini 
Madras. 


Shri A. Venkateswar- 
lu and P. Ranga Rao, 
Hyderabad. 


65022 

2-12-69 
U 


Films, Shri G. Raman, Madras. 65023 With triangle mark. 


4-12-69 


M/5794 


Actual length of the film, therefore remains the same, namely 42 -88 -53 Metres in 16 Reels. 

U 

•Rest House’ (Malaya- 3944 -75(14) Ganesh Productions, Shri K. P. Kottara- 65024 With triangle mark. 

lam) (35 mm) B&W. Madras. kara, Madras. 

(India). 5-12-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65024-U dated 5th December 1969- — issued to the film ‘Rest House’ (Malayalam). 
Length as in the application — 3956 -60 Metres. 


Cuts— 

1. Reel 1 — Reduce the duration of the professor calling ‘left, right’, to the male stu- 

dents before the girls 

2. Reel 2 — Reduce the length of the sequence showing the boys going into the bath- 

room, dressing room and bed-room where the lady students also go, to 
avoid the impression they are there simultaneously 

3. Reel 4 — Delete the dialogue of Appu “Ingane Poyal, Sari Thazhottu Veezhum” 

4. Reel 5 — When the girls and boys fight for sitting at the dining table and the food 

is spilt, the girl (Leela) is shown falling to the ground. At that time 
she is shown with her breasts prominently. This should be deleted . . 

5. Reel 7 — In the dream-sequence in song 4 — Lord Krishna is shown trying to kiss 

Radha. This should be deleted. (Replacement approved 1 -21) 

6. Reel 8 — Delete the dialogue of Sridharan where he refers to the five husbands 

of Panchali 

7. Reel 11 — Delete the shot of the professor unbuttoning his bushshirt and exposing 

his hairy stomach to the lady teacher 


Metres 

3-34 


2-43 

0-91 

0- 91 

1 - 21 
1 -52 
2-74 


Total Cuts 


13-04 


Actual length of the film after cuts and replacement will be 3944 -75 Metres in 14 Reels. 

U 

M/5791 ‘Atthai Magal’ (Tamil) 3837-43(15) Dana bagyam Pictures, Danabagyam Pictures, 65025 With triangle mark. 

(35 mm) B&W. Madras. Madras. 

(India). 5-12-69 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65025-U dated 5th December 1969 — issued to the film ‘Athai Magal’ (Tamil). 
Length as in the application — 3839 -25 Metres. 




P^ht III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1797 


1. Reel 2 — Delete the backshot of a girl carrying two pots and shaking her bottom. 

(Approximate replacement 2 -74) 

2. Reel 11 — Song 3 — Delete the shaking of breasts in Prabha’s dance. (Approved 

replacement 2 -43) 

3. Reel 12 — Delete the dialogue of D. D. saying that he is also a woman and looking 

at his breasts 

4. Reel 15 — Song 4 — Delete all shots of the male dressed as a female appearing 

therein. (Approved replacement with changed dress for the male) 


Total Cuts 


128-00 
134 -99 


Total approved replacement in the film — 133 -17 Metres. 

Actual length of the film after cuts and replacement is 3837.43 Metres in 15 Reels, 


M/5806 Trailer of ‘Rest House’ 
(Malayalam) (35 mm) 
B. & W. 


110-63(1) Ganesh Productions, Shri K. P. Kottarakara, 
Madras. Madras. 


5-12-69 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 

13th December, 1969: 

BOMBAY 


B/58316 “Do Bhai” (Colour) 4306-21(16) Brij Sadanah, Dynamo Brij Sadanah, Dynamo 


(Hindi) 

(India). 


(35 mm) 


International 217 /A, International, Bom- 
Famous Cine Bldg., bay-11. 

Mahalaxmi, Bom- 
bay-1 1 . 


8-12-69 


B/58540 Trailer of “Ishq Par 
Zor Nahin" (Colour) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


125(1) Prestige Films, 163, Prestige Films, Bom- 
Lamington Road, bay-7. 

Bombay-7. 


8-12-69 


B/58499 “Diamond Powders 
And Pastes” (Colour) 
(Japanese) (16 mm) 
(U.K.). 


176(2) L P E — Aiyars Pvt. Industrial Diamond 
Ltd., 7th floor, Nir- Information Bureau, 
mal Nariman Nari- London, (U.K.). 
man Point, Bombay-1 . 


8-12-69 


B/58382 “The Dynamics Of 
Leadership (Anatomy 
Of A Group)” (Eng- 
lish) (16mm) (U.S.A.). 


329 -17(3) National Education Russell 

Sc Information Films (U.S.A.). 
Ltd., National House, 

Tulloch Road, Bom- 
bay. 


Morash, 


8-12-69 


B/58381 “The Dynamics Of 
Leadership (Indivi- 
dual Motivation and 
Behaviour)” (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


329 -17(3) 


8-12-69 


B/58437 “Elektronova Vodivost 
(Conductivity Of 
Electrons)” (Czech) 
(16 mm) (Czechoslo- 
vakia). 


106-68(1) 


Kratky Film Praha, 
(Czechoslovakia). 


8-12-69 


B/58380 “The Dynamics Of 
Leadership (Road- 
blocks To Communi- 
cation)” (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


329 -17(3) 


Russell Morash, 
(U.S.A.). 


8-12-69 


B/58328 “Bertrand Russell : 

Discusses Philoso- 
phy (English) (16 
mm) (U.S.A.). 


152-40(2) Educational & Scienti- Coronet Instructional 
fic Equipments Pvt. Films, (U.S.A.). 

Ltd., C/o National 
Education & Infor- 
mation Films, Ltd. 

National House, Tul- 
loch Road, Bombay. 


8-12-69 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part III— Sec. 4 


B/57896 “Desert People” 

(English) (16 nun) 

(Australia). 


570(1) Australian High Com- Australian Common- 
mission, New Delhi, wealth Film Unit, 
Australia. 


9-12-69 


B/58307 “Golf In Australia’ 
(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (Australia). 


9-12-69 


B/57901 “Valley Deep-Moun- 
tain High” (Colour) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(Australia). 


9-12-69 


B/57897 “Five Aboriginal Dan- 
ces From Cape York” 
(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (Australia). 


B/58501 


B/57115 


“Kanku” (Gujarati) 
(35 mm) (India). 


4053 -50(16) Kantilul Rathod, Kantilal Rathod, 
Bhulabhai Institute, Akar Films, Bom- 
89, Bhulabhai Desai bay-26. 

Road, Bombay-26. 


59679 With triangle mark. 
9-12-69 


Endorsement — 

Original length — 4053 -84 m. 

Delete the underlined word from the sentence “Tun pan Vanian jevi phophati nikah” as spoken by Malakchand. — 
0 -34 m, 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be — 4053 -50 m. 

U 

Trailer of “Bedazzled” 69 -32(1) 20th Century Fox Stanley Dcnen, 59680 With triangle mat k. 

(Widescreen) (Colour) j Corp. (I) P. Ltd. Me- (U.S.A.). — — 

(English) (35 nun) tro House, M. G. 9-12-69 

(U.S.A.). Road, Bombay. 

Endorsement — 

Original length — 72 -84 m. 

1. Delete the shot showing Moon digging his face into the bosom of the dancer. — 0 -72 m. 

2. Reduce to a flash the views of the dancer in scantily clad costume during her performance. — 2 -R0 m. 

(Length retained — 0 -49 m). 

Length of deletions — 3 -52 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 69 -32 m. 


B/58553-56 


B/58538 


“Vettri-In-Rahasyam” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


“Shadow” 

(English) 

(India). 


(Colour) 
(35 mm) 


B/58525-29 “The Long Chase” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


29-87(1) Mahendra Batra, 1, Focus Films, O’ Block, 
Bajrang Nivas, Santa- New Airpoit, Cal- 
cruz East, Bombay-53, cutta-53. 


30 -48(1) Richardson Hindustan 
Ltd., Tiecicion House, 
Dr. E. Moses Road, 
Bombay-1. 


30-48(1) The Atlas Cycle Indus- 
tries Ltd. 


Jyoti G. Thakur, Film 
Media, 47, Lr.xmi In- 
surance Bldg., Sir 
P. M. Road, Bombay- 


United Film Makers, 
311-12, Himalaya 
House, Palton Road, 
Bombay-1 . 


59681 

Valid for Tamil, 


Telugu, Kannada 

9-12-69 

& Malayalam ver- 


sions. 

U 


59682 

— 

9-12-69 


U 



59683 Valid for Hindi, 

Tamil, Bengali, 

9-12-69 Telugu & Kannada 
versions. 


B/58530 Trailer of “Anokhi 
Raat” (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India).! 


64(1) L. B. Lachman, L. B. 
Films, Goverdhan 
Bldg., No. 2, Parekh 
Street, Bombay-4. 


L. B. Lrchman, L. B. 59684 

Films, Bombay-4. 

9-12-69 


B/58542 “Hie Citie* : A City 
Is To Live In — Part 
I & II” (Colour) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


590 -70(2) U. S. Information Ser- 
vice, Fazal Bhay 
House, Marine Lines, 
Bombay. 


CBS News .(U.S.A.), 


9-12-69 







1800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) [Part 111— Sec. 4 



B/58311 

B/58546 


U 

“Reception” (English) 315(1) Do. Do. 59700 — 

{ 1 6 mm) (Canada) . — 

10-12-69 

U 

“Men Of Brazil” 787-91(2) Duncan Corcoran, M.R. A. Productions, 60001 

(Colour) (Hindi) No. 3, Farmroz Court, (U.S.A.). 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). Bombay. 1. 12-12-69 

ENDORSEMENTS 
ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 

B/58101. 

Film— "Do Raaste” (Colour) (Hindi). 

U-59494 dt 18-11-69. 

Reel XVII Addition of song beginning with the words “Bindia chamkegi "is approved— 1 4 02 m. 

Reels XIII, XVI & XVIII— Deleted various shots— 79 -86 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be — 4345 -48 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 8th December, 1969. 

B/28666 

Film — “Cattle Warble Flies” (Colour) (English). 

A-1086 dt 26-4-61. 

This certificate is valid also for the exhibition of Black & White version of the film. The length of the film remains 
unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 9th December 1969. 

B/57114. 

Film “Bedazzled” (Panavision) (Colour) (English). 

A-2635 dt. 3-12-69. 

Reel V— Reduced to flash the scene of lady’s bare bosom when seen in the reflection of the glass in the bath room. — 
3 -66 m. ( Length retained: 0 -61 m.) 

Reel VI— Deleted the shot of Moon digging his face into the bosom of the dancer.— 3 -16 m. 

Reel X— Reduced the shots of Lust dancing with her hips going back and forward towards the audience.— 9 -14 m. 

( Length retained — 1 -52 m). 

Length of deletions — 1 5 -96 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be:— 2800 -69 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 9th December 1969. 

B/49524. 

Film — “Hum Do Daakoo” (Hindustani). 

U-50760 dt 17-5-67. 

Reel /—Substitution of the title of the film as “Hum Raahi Matwale” is approved.— 37 -49 m. 

Reels I, XVII & XVIII— Deleted various shots— 146 -61 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be— 4362 -92 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 10th December 1969. 

B/39890. 

Film — “Water Into Wealth” (English). 

U-41104 dt 28-3-64. 

Reel /—Addition of Films Divisions monogram “Released through F.D.” js approved.— 1 -82 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be— 323 -82 m. 

The certificate was endorsed on 10th December 1969. 


CALCUTTA 


C/6477 Aranyer Dm Ratri 
(Bengali) (35 mm) 
(India). 


3210-44(12) 


Priya Films, 95, Rash 
Behari Avenue, Cal- 
cutta. 


Nepal Dutta & Ashim 
Dutta, C/o Priya 
Films, 95, Rash 
Behari Avenue, Cal- 
cutta. 


8-12-69 


C/6471 


C/6333 


ChandKa Nishan Ki- 
shan Ki Shan (Col- 
our) (Hindi) (16 mm) 
(Inoia). 

Cbirocephalus Dia- 
phanus (Colour) 

(French) (16 mm) 

(France). 


493 -77(5) Image India Films (P) Image India Films (P) 58504 

Ltd., 9/1, Love Lock Ltd., 9/1, Love Lock 

place, Calcutta-9. Place, Calcutta-9. 9-12-69 


Cultural Counsellor, Facultue Des Sciences, 58505 

French Embassy, Dijon. — 

New Delhi. 12-12-69 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1801 


1 


C/6334 


C/6335 


C/6336 


C/6337 


C/6338 


M/5800 


2 


La Sissection du Ver a 
Soie (Bombyx Mori 
L) (Colour) (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 


Petites Turbines Sur 
Palier Air (Colour) 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 

Influence D’une Cou- 
che Monomobonlaire 
Sur Les Mouvements 
Au Liquide Support 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 


Mobilite Des Mole- 
cules Organiques 
Polaires A La Surface 
Du Vesre (French) 
(16 mm) (France). 

Initiation A La Biolo- 
gie Marine (Colour) 
(French) (16 mm) 
(France). 


3 


114(1) 


100 ( 1 ) 


94(1) 


125(1) 


304(1) 


4 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Cultural Counsellor, 
French Embassy, 
New Delhi. 


Do. 


5 


faculte Des Sciences, 
Lyon. 


Faculte Des Sciences 
Paris, France. 


Laboratoire De Physi- 
que Industrielic Fa- 
culte Des Science De 
Marseille. 


Laboratoire De Physi- 
que Industielle, 
Faculte Des Sciences, 
Marseille. 


M. Guillon. 


6 7 


U 

58506 
12-12-69 

U 

58507 
12-12-69 

U 

58508 
12-12-69 

U 

58509 


12-12-69 


U 

58510 


12-12-69 


MADRAS 


‘Thalia? Pellama? 

(Telugu) (Partly 
coloured) (35 mm) 
(India). 


U 

5400 -47(19) R. K-NAT & Co., 63- Shri T. Trivikrama 65027 With triangle mark. 

A, Bazullah Road, Rao, 63-A, Bazullah 

Madras-17. Road, Madras-17. 8-12-69 


Endorsement on Certificate No, 65027-U, dated 8th December 1969— issued to the film ‘Thalia? Pellama’ (Telugu). 
Length as in the application — 5409 -59 Metres. 


Cuts — 


1 . Reel 2— Reduce the duration of the sequence showing the suggestion of kissing 

between Saroja and her husband Prabhakar 

2. Reel 4 — Delete the dialogue when the crowd shouts “You are not patriots, but 

traitors”. Also delete the expression “Vinayakulu”. 

3. Reel 8 — Delete the shot of Sudhakar resting his head on the bosom of Padma 

4. Reel 13 — Delete the dialogue of Sudhakar "Politics is the last resort of scoun- 

drel” 


Metres 

0- 30 

1 - 22 
4-56 

3-04 


Total cuts 9-12 


M/5801 


M/5802 


Actual length of the fil* after <*>s is 5400 -47 Metres in 19 Reels. 
Reel No. 16—281 -32 TWetre^^colour. 


Trailer of ‘Minnal 83 -83(1) Senthilkumar Produc- Senthilkumar Produc- 65028 With triangle mark 

Mohini’ (Tamil) (35 tions, 30-A, South tions, 30A, South 

mm) B&W. (India). Boag Road, Madras- Boag Road, Madras- 9-12-69 

17. 17. 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65028-U dated 9th December 1969— issued to the film Trailer of ‘Minnal Mohini’ 
(Tamil) 35 mm. B&W. 

Length as in the application — 91 -44 Metres. 


Cuts — 

Delete the dance shot which occurs twice in Reel 3 and the shot of lifting her in the 
water which occurs in Reel 10 of the main film, which are included in this trailer 
Actual length of the trailer is therefore 83 -83 Metres in one reel. 


‘Minnal Mohini’ 3962 -40(14) Senthilkumar Produc- Senthilkumar Produc- 
(Tamil) (35 mm) tions, 30-A, South tions, 30-A, South 

B. & W. (India). Boag Road, Madras- Boag Road, Madras- 

17. 17. 


Metres 


7-61 

U 

65029 With triangle mark. 
9-12-69 



- 1-802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1 892) [Part III- Sec. 4 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 65Q29-U dated 9th December 1969 - issued to the film ‘Minnal Mohini’ (Tamil). 
Length as in the application — 3962-40 Metres. 

Cuts — 

Metres 

1. Red 3 — Song 1 — Delete the shots where the dancer shakes her bottom and 

breasts, and makes sideways movements with her hips in the first, 
second and third stanzas, (a) beginning with the words ‘Mayakkam 
Manakka Vendumo; (b) En Paruvathii. . . .Pudimoham Thudikku- 
dha; (c) Kadhal Vazhvai. . . .Kaalum Thudikkiratha'- (Approved re- 
placement of crowds reaction) 7-61 

2. Reel 10 -Song 5 — Delete the following (a) Sound of kissing (sound only); (b) 

where the male lifts one leg of the dancer with his hands; (c) Scene in 
the river where he lefts her bodily. (Raplacement with crowd reaction 
for (b) and with water-background for (c) 7 -61 


Total cuts .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 15-22 


Actual length of the film after cuts and approved replacements , therefore remains the same , namely 3963 -40 Metres in 14 
Reels, 

U 


M/5773 

‘Power with Precision’ 
(English) (16 mm) 

B&W. (Australia). 

228 -60(1) 

Shri P. V. Chandra- 
sekharan, 10-B, Go- 
palapuram, First St., 
Madras-6. 

Australian Common- 
wealth Film Unit, 
Australia. 

65030 

P.E. 



10-12-69 


N/5776 

‘Ugly Duckling’ (Eng- 
lish) (Technicolour) 
(16 mm) (England). 

106 -98(1) 

Rev. Michael B. Du- 
raiswamy, Basic 

School, Tindivanam. 

Training Walt Disney 
Productions Ltd., 

England. 

U 

65031 

P.E. 



11-12-69 


M/5819 

‘Flag Day Appeal’ 
(Tamil) (35 mm) 

B&W. (India). 

183 -00(1) 

Collector of Madras, 
Madras-1. 

Collector of Madras, 
Madras-] . 

U 

65032 

P.E. 



11-12-69 


M/5804 

‘Pratheekaram’ (Telu- 
gu) (35 min) B&W. 
(India). 

3978-86(16) 

Sri Radhakrishna Pro- 
ductions, 4, First 
Main Road, Madras- 
24. 

Sri Radhakrishna Pro- 
ductions, 4, First 
Main Road, Madras- 
24. 

U 

65033 

With triangle mark. 



12-12-69 



Endorsement on Certificate No. 6S033-U dated 12th December 1969— issued to the film ‘Pratheekaram’ (Telugu) 
35mm B&W. 

Length as in the application — 3995 -92 Metres. 


Cuts — 

Metres 


1. Reel 3 — Delete the following shots when Mohan and Radha make loves : (a) 

he putting his hand on her left thigh and caressing; (b) both of 
them lying over each other (2 shots) .. .. .. .. .. 1-52 

3 -64 

2. Reel 4 — Delete the shot showing naked statue of the ladsteat 1-21 

3. Reel 6— Delete two shots showing a girl on the bed (Rani) showing her breasts 

in a very pointed manner 2 - 1 3 

4. Reel 6— Delete the shot of the man being stabbed directly with the knife, on 

his body 0-60 


5. Reel 9 — Delete the shot of Mohan touching the body of Rani in the bath tub 

with soap lather 3-95 


6. Reel 9— Delete the shot of Mohan putting his head on the bust of Radha . . I -21 

7. R ee i 10 Delete the dialogue of Kaka “Aa musaladu emi chesthede; cljesthe 

memi cheyyaligani” 0-68 

8. Reel 12 — Delete the shot of the cook (Eka) touching the lady’s portrait (with 

exposed bust) and kissing his finger 0-91 

9. Reel 12 — Delete Mohan’s dialogue ‘God has another name, that is devil’ .. 1-21 


Total cuts 17-06 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be 3978 -86 Metres in 16 Reels. 


Fart III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1803 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 




BOMBAY 


U 

60002 


B/58949 

“Safedi Ka Mukabala” 
(Hindi) (35 mm.) 

(India). 

30 -48(1) 

Radio Advertising Ser- 
vices, Cecil Court, 
Landsdown Road, 
Bombay-1 . 

Radio Advertising Ser- 
vices, Bombay-1 . 

— 



15-12-69 


B/58539 

“Sachaai” (Colour) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

“Indian Relocation : 
Elliot Lake” (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) 

(Canada). 

4724 -40(19) 

EM. CER. Films, 
126, Hind Rajasthan 
Building, Dadar Main 
Road, Dadar, Bom- 
bay-14. 

Office of the High 
Commissioner for 

Canada 

New Delhi. 

N. C. Ramamurthy, 
Bombay-14. 

The National Film 
Board of Canada ■ 
(Canada). 

U 

60003 

— 

B/58308 

336(1) 

15-12-69 

U 

60004 




15-12-69 


B/58304 

“Atlantic Parks” 

(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (Canada). 

198 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

60005 

— 





15-12-69 


B/58307 

“More Homes For 
More People” 

(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (Canada). 

313 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

60006 

— 





15-12-69 


B/58309 

“The Invention of 
The Adolescent” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(Canada). 

316-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

60007 

— 





15-12-69 



B/58352 Trailer of “Before 
Winter Comes” 

(Colour) (English) 

(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 


U 

77-11(1) Columbia Films of Robert Emmett Ginna 60008 

India Ltd. Metro (U.S.A.). 

House, M. G. Road, 15-12-69 

Bombay. 


B/58487 “Image of Progress” 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/58583 “Works Better-Works 
-85 Faster” (35 mm) 

(India). 


B/58605 “Indian News Re- 
view No.1106” (35mm) 
(India). 


B/58588 “Mahitichitra No. 

116” (Gujarati) 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/58590 “Gujarat Na Bundaro” 
(Gujarati) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58567 “Sampuran Aahar” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/57782 Trailer of “Isadora’ 
(Colour) (English) 
(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 


U 

646-18(2) Agfa-Gevaert India Homi D. Sethna, 60009 

Ltd. 41-New Marine Film Makers, 67- — — 

Lines, Bombay-20. Bhulabhai Desai Rd., 16-12-69 
Bombay-26. 


22-86(1) Triveni, S/8, College Triveni, Bombay-19. 
Road, Matunga, 

Bombay-19. 


U 

60010 

Valid for English, 

16-12-69 Tamil & Sinhalese 
versions. 


U 

175-87(1) Films Division, Films Division, 60011 Valid for 14 versions. 

Govt. of India, Govt. of India, — 

24, Peddar Road, Bombay-26. 17-12-69 

Bombay-26. 


U 

257(1) Director of Informa- Director of Informa- 60012 
tion, Government of tion, Government of — ■- - — 
Gujarat, Sachivalya, Gujarat, Ahmeda- 17-12-69 

Ahmedabad-15. bad-15. 

U 

379-68(2) Do. Do. 60013 


17-12-69 

U 

29-87(1) Advertising & Sales F. B. Productions, 60014 — 

Promotion Co. Steel- Film Centre, 68, 

crete House D. W. Tardeo Road, Bom- 17-12-69 
Road, Bombay-1. bay-34. 

U 

88-70(1) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 60015 With triangle maik. 

India Private Ltd., Company Inc. New 

Metro House, M.G. York, (U.S.A.). 17-12-69 

Road. Bombay. 


M299GI/70— 15 




1804 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) [Part 111— Sec. -4 









(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 


Endorsement — 

Original length : — 102-41 m. 

1 . Delese shots of Isadora dancing in nude. — 4 -57 m. 

2. Reduce to minimum the love making of Isadora and Craig and her suggestive crr.ce pcscs in ihc fksh 
back — 6 -40 m. (Length retained — 2 -74 m.). 

3. Delete the front views of Isadora in dark-blue dress 'in which her b re body is seen ptominei.lly wlnu she is 
dancing — 2 -74 m. 

Length of deletions — 13 -71 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions wilt he— 88-70 m. 


B/58591- “Buddhisaali Viv: sa- 
93A yikal Everest Asbes- 
tos Cement Yup- 
Ayokikithrkal” (Col.) 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/58594-95 “Buddhiman Chasi 

Everest Asbestos 

Cement Bebhor 

tCaroon” (Colour) 

(35 mm) (India). 


B/58361 “Satyakam” (Colour) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58601-04 “Joy Of Life” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58597-600 “Thou Shalt Forever 
Be Prosperous” 
(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58513 “A Funny Thing 
Happened On The 
Way” (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


B/58511 “Don’t Elbow Me 
Off The Earth” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


B/58512 “Man In The Mid- 
dle” (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


B/58510 “A Thief Named 
Dismas” (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S, A.). 


B/58617 “Shubhratechi Spar- 
dha” (Marathi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


B/58616 “Safed Dholaini 

Spardha” (Gujarati) 
(35 mm) (India). 


U 

29-87(1) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Bomb; y-7. 60016 V; lid for Ttmil. 

Studio, Kennedy - Tclugu, Kann; cln 

Bridge, Bombny-7. 17-12-69 and Malcyi.lt m 

versions. 


29-87(1) Do. 


U 

Do. 60017 Vf lid for Bengali. 

& Hindi versions. 

17-12-69 


U 

4479-95(18) S. J. S. Punchhe, S. J. S. Punchhe, 60018 

Punchhe Arts In- Juhu Church, Juhu, 

tern-tional, Seksaria Bomb;y-54. 18-12-69 

Bungalow, Juhu 
Church, Juhu, Bom- 
bay-54. 


U 

30-48(1) Jay Key Advertisers, Jay Kay Advertisers, 60019 V’ lid for English, 

Ro.-kside, Walkesh- Bomb;’y-6. - — - — Hindi, Gujurti 

wrr Road, Bombay-6. 18-12-69 and Marathi 

versions. 


30-48(1) Do. Do. 60020 Valid for English, 

• Hindi, Gujarati 

18-12-69 and Marathi 

versions. 

U 

304-80(1) Theodore Bowling Insight (Jhon Newland) 60021 — 

S. J. De Nobill (U.S.A.). — 

College, Poona-1 4. 18 - 1 2-69 


U 

304-80(1) Do. Do. 60022 


18-12-69 


U 

304-80(1) Do. Do. 60023 


18-12-69 


304-80(1) Theodore Bowling Insight (John Funia) 60024 

S. J. De Nobill (U.S.A.). 

College, Poona-1 4. j 8-1 2-69 


30-48(1) Radio Advertising Radio Advertising 60025 

Services, Cecil, Court, Services, Bombay-1. — 

Landsdown Road. 18-12-69 

Bombay- 1 . 

U 

30-48(1) Do. Do. 60026 


18-12-69 



P\rt III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1805 



(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

B/58618 

“Shubratar Protijo- 
gita” (Bengali) 

(35 mm) (India). 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

60027 

19-12-69 

— 


B/58619 “Bilupina Spardhe” 30-48(1) 
(Kannada) (35 mm) 

(India). 


B/58620 “Venmayakkan Oru 30-48(1) 

M tlsaram” (Mala- 
yalam) (35 mm) 

(India). 


B/58622 Trailer of “Do 
Bh ii’ (Colour) 

(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 


B/58349 “Run Wild, Run 
Free” (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


B/ 58596 “Billy” (Colour) 

(Hindi) (35 ram) 
(India). 


B/58575 “Justice Blrck And 
The Bill of Rights” 
(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

60028 


91 -44(1) Chandra Mohan, 

Evergreen Hotel, 

Khar, Bombi.y. 


2771 -55(5) Columbia Films of 
India Ltd., Metro 
House, M. G. Rord, 
Bombi.y. 


19-12-69 

U 

60029 

19-12-69 

U 


Brij Sadnah, 217/A, 60030 

Famous Cine Bldg. 


Mahalaxmi, Bom- 19-12-69 
bay-1. 

U 

John Danischewsky, 60031 
(U.S.A.). 


B/58150 Trailer of “Run 90-53(1) 

Wild, Run Free” 

(Colour) (English) 

(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 


Do. 


30-48(i) B. P. Srivastava, 
Seven Arts, 6, Air 
Conditioned Market, 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 


567 -54(2) United States In- 
formation Service, 
4, New Marine Line, 
Bombay-20. 


B/58579 “The Student Scene: 252-07(1) 

69 (An Interview 
with Seymour Lip- 
set) (English) (16 
mm) (U.S.A.). 


Do. 


Do. 


B. P. Srivt stf.va, 
Seven Arts, Bcm- 
bay-34. 


CBS News, (U.S.A.). 


USIA Washington, 
D.C. (U.S.A.). 


20-12-69 


U 

60032 

20-12-69 


U 

60033 

20-12-69 


U 

60034 

20-12-69 


U 

60035 

20-12-69 


B/58578 “Library Of Cong- 
ress” (Colour) 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


B/58580 "An Impression Of 
John Steinbeck : 
Writer” (Colour) 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


B/58547 “Bikini Beach” (Pana- 
vision) (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


B/58548 Trailer of ‘Bikini 

Beach” (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

B/58515 “The Sandnlmaker” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.) 


245-36(1) 


235-00(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

Encyclopaedia Bri- 60036 
tannica Educational 


Corporation, (U.S. A.). 20-12-69 


U 

Donald Wrye, (U.S.A.) .60037 


20-12-69 


U 

2803-55(12) Mudnaney Film Ser- American Interna- 60038 
vice, Kathoke Lodge, tional Pictures, — — — — 
Main Road, -Dadar, (U.S.A.). 20-12-69 

Bombay-14. 


71-63(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

60039 

20-12-69 


U 


304-80(1) Theodo’e Bowling Insight (JhonNewland) 60040 

S. J. De Nobill (U.S.A.). __ 

college, Poona- 14. 20-12-69 




1806 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 

1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 

[Part III — Sec/ 4 


(l) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

B/58198 

“The Science Re- 
port 94- A” (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

149-65(1) 

U. S. Information 
Service, Fazal Bhoy 
House, Marine Lines, 
Bombay. 

Robert Foster, 

(U.S.A.). 

U 

60041 




20-12-69 


B/56719 

“Munster, Go Home 1” 
(Colour) (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

1083-87(3) 

Universal Pictures 

India Pvt. Ltd., 
Metro House, M. G. 
Rd., Bombay. 

Joe Connelly and 

Bob Mosher (U.S. A.) 

A 

2637 

— 



15-12-69 


B/56815 

‘The Ghose and 

Mr. Chicken” 

(colour) (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

1008-27(3) 

Do. 

Edwards J. Montagne, 
(U.S.A.). 

A 

2638 

— 




15-12-69 


B/58312 

“Illegal Abortion” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(Canada). 

286(1) 

Office of The High 
Commissioner for 

Canada, New Delhi. 

The National Film 
Board of Canada, - 
(Canada). 

A 

2639 

— 



17-12-69 



B/57781 “Isadora (Loves of 
Isadora)” (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 


3591 • 77(17) Universal Pictures Universal Pictures 
India Pvt. Ltd., Company Inc. New 
Metro House, M. G. York, (U.S.A.). 17-12-69 

Rd. Bombay. 


2640 With triangle mark. 


Endorsement — 

Original length : 3624-38 m. 

Reel III — Delete the sequence in which Isadora is shown dancing in nude in the studio of 

Craig. — 22-86 m. 

Reel VIII — Delete the shots showing bare bossom of Isadora, while she is giving her dance performance 
on the stage in Boston. — 9-75 m 

Length of deletions. — 32-61 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. — 3591-77 m. 


ENDORSEMENTS 

VERSIONS 

B/58277. 

Film. — “Wheat Rust” (English). 

U-29385, dt. 1-5-60. 

This certificate is valid also for Hindi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

This certificate was endorsed on 15th December 1969. 

CORRECTION 

B/ 55817. 

Film. — “Mcra Dost” (Hindi). 

U-56702, dt. 11-3-69, 

Number of reels on the face of the certificate may be read as 14 instead of 16. The length of the film 
remains unaltered. 

This certificate was endorsed on 15th December 1969. 

REFUSED CERTIFICATE 


B/55503 

“October” (English) 
(16 mm) (U.S.S.R.). 

1 142(10) The U. S. S. R. | Con- 
sulate General, 

20, Nepean Sea Road , 
Bombay-6. 

Mosfilm Studios, Refused 

(U.S.S.R.). By 

R. C. on 
19-12-69 



CALCUTTA 


C/6479 

Thakavat- Ki-Rukavat 
(Colour) (Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India). 

63-15(1) Filmlet Advertising, 
109, Bidhan Sarani, 
Calcutta-4. 

U 

Asok Bagchi and 58511 

Aloke Nath Bagchi, — — 

C/o Filmlet Adver- 15-12-69 
tising, 109, Bidhan 

Sarani, Calcutta-4. 

C/6478 

Shasti (Bengali) (35 
mm) (India). 

3054-41(11) Chhaya Lipi, 95, Rash 
Behari Avenue, 

Calcutta-29. 

U 

Sujit Sarkar, 95, 58512 

Rash Behari Avenue, 

Calcutta-29. 15-12-69 




i*art III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1807 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)_ (7) 

A 

C/6385 Pyaar (Hindi) (35 mm) 3818-21(15) Film Makers, Tech- Chhaganalal, C/o Te- 2702 With triangle mark. 

(India). nicians Studio (P) clinicians Studio — 

Ltd., Calcutta-40. (P) Ltd., Cal- 15-12-69 
cutta-40. 

Endorsement . — 

Original length of the film. — 3,93 1 -92 metres. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 1 . — Delete the shots in which Phulva, scantily clothed, is shown 

lying on the lap of Champa in water, .on which a credit title is 
superimposed 5-79 

2. Reel 2 . — Delete entirely the picturisation of the song beginning with the 

words “Meri Jaan akad yah husn tera ” . . . . . . 73-98 

(Replaced with approved shots . — -73 • 98) 

3. Reel 3 . — Delete the scene in the bath-room from the point when Kiran 

unties her towel and bra to the point when she meets Ratan out- 
side the door . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11-27 

4. Reel 3 . — Delete the underlined words from the following dialogues of 

Champa addressed to Kiran : “Huzoor ka gulam Har 

Marzkidava” 1-52 

5. Reel 3 . — Delete entirely the scene (both picturization and dialogues) 

in which the Family Planning Doctor examines patients in an 
objectionable manner 4-87 

6. Reel 3 . — Delete the shots in which Phulva, scantily clothed, is shown 

lying on the lap of Champa in water, and the latter kissing her on 

the lips.. .." 2-43 

7. Reel 4 . — Delete the shots in which Champa and Phulva change their 

dresses at the stream and Ratan takes a photograph .. .. 7-27 

8. Reel 4. — (a) From the picturization of the song beginning with the words 

“Akad ke kahan chale meri jaan ” delete, (i) Ratan 

moving his hand freely on Phulva’s chest (ii) Various 
kissing gestures between them, and (iii) close embrace and 

their cuddling 7-27 

( Replaced with approved shots. — 7-62 metres). 

(b) From the wordings of the same song, 
delete the following : — 

‘Hamare pahloo main aao yakin hai pyas 

buzhaaoge ” 4-26 

(Replaced with approved shots . — 4 • 26 metres). 

9 Reel 4 .— Delete the shots in which Phulva places her legs on Ratan while 

, both of them are lying on the cot in her house .. .. 4-26 

10. Reel 5. — -From the picturisation of the song beginning with the words 

“Tu kaisi been bajaye re ” delete the indecorous 

hip movements by Phulva and other girls and the suggestion 

of kiss between Ratan and Phulva 4-87 

(Replaced with approved shots. — 4-87 metres). 

11. Reel 6 . — Delete the underlined words from the following dialogue bet- 

ween Ratan and Phulva : — 

Ratan : “Haan Bol., ah shadi karogi 7” 

Phulva : “Haan Vada kar loongi tuzhse bhi aur 

tere baap se bhi” 1-82 

12. Reel 8. — (a) From the picturisation of the song beginning with the words 

“Yah thandi hava ” delete : 

(0 the suggestion of kiss between Ratan and Phulva 
wherever it occurs. 

(ii) their cuddling and rolling one over the other; and 
(hi) the shots in which they are seen in compromising 

position in water .. .. .. .. .. .. 11-27 

(Replaced with approved shot $. — 11-27 metres). 

(b) From the wordings of the same song delete the underlined 
words : 

‘Aise main agar ho meet mera, dam bhar to mile d o 

kaaya ” 0-91 

(Replaced with approved shot. — 0-91 metres) 

13. Reel 9 . — Delete (i) the shot in which Shankar embraces Kiran from 

behind while she is sitting on a sofa and (ii) the shot in which 

the pallu of her sari falls and she tries to adjust it .. .. 4-87 

14. Reel 9 . — Delete entirely the scene (including the dialogue) in which the 

frustrated family planning doctor examines an ass and sug- 
gests that it needs family planning. (There is no objection 
to the shots in which the ass is drawn into the scene and the 
doctor coming out of the dispensary) 


24-38 




1808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— Sec. 4 









(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 


Metres 

15. Reel 10. — From the following dialogue of Thakur addressed to Raka. 

delete the underlined words : 

‘ Mai n us nagin ka zahar ek hi raat main uthar doonga ’ . . . . 1 - 82 

16. Reel 10 .— Delete the following dialogue of Raka addressed to Champa : 

11 Zhonpadi ke pichhvade chalkar pyar karenge re ” .. 2-43 

17. Reel 10 . — Delete the following dialogue between Champa and Badshah : 

Champa : “Are voh dono aaj ke raat Zhonpadi main soyenge 

na .?” 

Badshah : “Haan”' 

Champa : “To turn vahan kaise soyege ” .. .. 4-87 

18. Reel 10 . — Delete the following dialogue between Ratan and Phulva : 

Phulva : “Suhaag raat ” 

Ratan : “Shaadi ke pahele hi ?” 

Phulva : “Shaadi to naag panchami ko hogi. Pure teen 
mahine baaki hai’’ 

Ratan : “To rasam adayi pahele hi ?” 

Ratan : “Aag lage to bula lena” 

19. Reel 10 . — Delete the shots in which Champa’s emphasised busts and bare 

thighs are prominently visible while she is lying on the cot and 
Chandu is seen near her 3*65 

20. Reel 11. — From the flashback, delete the shots in which there is a sugges- 

tion of a kiss between Ratan and Phulva - 1 .g2 

(Replaced with approved fhot . — 1 -82 m.) 

21. Reel 1 1.— Delete the following dialogue of Thakur addressed to Chandu 

with respect to Phulva : 

“ Maalmerahai ” 1-82 

22. Reel 12 . — Delete entirely the scene (both picturisation and dialogues) 

in which the family planning doctor examines Chandu 
(disguised as a woman) for pregnancy. (There is no objection 
to the retention of the scene upto the point when Chandu 
enters the clinic and when Champa escapes) 6-09 

23. Reel 13 . — Reduce to the minimum the scene of molestation of Kiran bv 

Chandu mainly deleting the shots in which (it Chandu holds 

her blouse and (ii) the view ofKiran with legs raised. ... _ 5-48 

( Length retained . — 7 -62 m) 

24. Reel 13 . — Reduce to the minimum the scene in which the Thakur rapes 

Raimia mainly deleting the shots in which (i) he is shown lying 

over the girl (ii) and the views ofRamia in a raped condition ... 6 09 

(Length retained . — -7 -62 m) 

25. Reel 15 . — Delete from the flashback the shots in which Ratan and Phulva 

are shown rolling, cuddling and trying to kiss each other . . 6-09 

Length of deletions and reductions . — 218 -44 m. 

Length of approved replacements . — 104 -73 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be . — 3818 -21 m. 


M/5761 


M/5766 


M/5767 


MADRAS 


•Facts about Tyres’ 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 


Trailer of ‘Bhale Good- 
hachari’ (Telugu) 
(35 mm) (B. & W.) 
(India). 


182-88(1) 


112-48(1) 


U 

Madras Rubber Fac- Du Pont Co., U.S.A. 65034 

tory, Madras. 

15-12-69 


Basant 

Bombay, 


Pictures, Basant 

Bombay. 


U 

Pictures, 65035 


16-12-69 


‘Bhale Goodhachari’ 3991 -46(14) Do. 

(Telugu) (35 mm) 

(B. & W.) (India). 


U 

Do. 65036 With triangle mark. 


16-12-69 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 65036-U, dt. 16-1-69 issued to the film ‘Bhale Goodhachari’ (Telugu). 


Length as in the application . — 3991 -46 Mts. 


Cuts — 


1. Reel 2. — Delete the code word ‘Haryana’ wherever it occurs. (It 
occurs twice in Reel 2 and twice in Reel 3) 

(Sound only— replaced with the word ‘Charana’). 


Mts. 



Kart III— Sec, 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 1809 



(t) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


2, Reel 3. — Delete the shots showing officials looking like Chinese being 

shot at when they get out of the helicopter. .. .. .. 22-85 

( Replacement with official y looking like Indian $ approved — 22 -85) 

3. Reel 12. — Delete the reference to the laboratory in Dehra Dun of 

Prof. Sharmaji. . . 

(Sound only — replacement with the word ‘Eka Prasidha’ approved) 

Total cuts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22-85 


M/5809 
to 5812 

M/5813 

M/5805 


Approved replacement 22 -85 Metres in Reel 3. 

The actual length of the film, therefore remains the same, namely 3991 -46 Mts. in 14 Reels, after cuts and approved 
replacement. 

U 


‘Uneasy Lies the 30 -48(1) Kumari Films, 

Head’ (Colour) Ltd., Madras. 

(Tamil, Telugu, 

Kannada, & Hindi) 

(35 mm) (India)'. 

The Bear with the 30*48(1) Do. 

Sore Head’ (Colour) 

(Tamil, Telugu, 

Kannada and Hindi) 

(35 mm. ) (India). 

‘Akkaa Chellelu’ 4256-26(16) Jagapathi Films, Vija- 
(Telugu) (35 mm) yawada. 

(B. & W.) (India). 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65039-U, dated 18-12-69- 
(B. & W.). 

Length as in the application . — 4264 -45 Mts. 


P, Kumari Films, P. 65037 
Ltd. , Madras. - — — — 

17-12-69 


U 

Do. 65038 

17-12-69 


U 

Jagapathi Films, Vija- 65039 With triangle mark 
yawada. — — 

18-12-69 

-issued to the film ‘Akkaa Chellelu’ (Telugu) (35 mm) 


Cuts — 


1. Reel 2. — Song 1 — Delete the words ‘Dora Vayasu Cheers Lonchi Thongi 

Thongi Chuchindi’, wherever it occurs 

2. Reel 10 . — Delete the shot where Raju is lying on the easy-chair and 

Asha is pressing her busts 

3. Reel 15 . — Delete the dialogue of Raju saying that he will pay money 

as bribe for his release on bale 

Also delete the repetition of this idea in the court scene, 
(cross examination by Vijaya) 


Metres 
3-64 
0-45 
2-28 
1 -82 


Total cuts 8-19 


Actual length of the film after cuts will be . — 4256-26 Mts. in 16 Reels. 

U 

M/5824 ‘Operation Jackpot 4466-46(16) Anupam Movies, Anupam Movies, 65040 With trianele mark 

Nalli CID 999’ Madras. Madras. s 

(Kannada) (35 mm) 19-12-69 

(B. & W.) (India). 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65040-U, dated 19-12-69 issued to the film ‘Operation Jackpot Na]ljCID999 , 
(Kannada). 

Length as in the application — 4487 -86 Mts. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 2 . — Delete the shot of the dancer appearing in a provocative pose 

in the beginning of her feats, scantily clad 10-05 

2. Reel 7 . — Delete the shot of the person being burnt after petrol is sprinkled 

on him in the hospital ' . . . . 2-43 

3. Reel 8 . — Delete the dialogue which refers to this incident in the hospital 

(the words ‘Settu Sathuhoda’) (Sound only) 

4. Reel 10 . — Delete the shot of the nude figure of a woman showing her 

breasts on the well. Delete also the (shots where the dancer 
shakes her breasts and hips, in a circular motion of the bottom 
and putting her hands and legs on the floor, shaking her bottom 
sideways violently . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 -91 

( Replacement . — 3 -95). • - 

5. Reel 15 . — Delete the shots of the dancer shaking her bottom, the 

front and back-movements with a violent shake on the 
revolving stage, and shaking^ the bust and hips sideways on 

the words ‘ba, ba’ etc. . . .. 4-56 

( Replacement approved . — 4 -56). . . 


1810 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


[Part III— SecM 


* 







(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 


6. Reel 16. — Delete the second shot where Prof. Sekhar is gassed and 

tortured 4-86 


Total cuts 29-81 


M/5822 

M/5808 


Actual length of the film after cuts and replacements will be — 4466 -56 Mts. in 1 6 Reels. 


'Kumarasambhavam’ 
(Malayalam) (35 mm) 
(Eastmancolour) 

‘Kanneeru’ (Kannada) 
(35 mm) (B. & W.) 
(India). 


4204-41(16) Neela Productions, 
Trivandrum. 


3765 -24(14) Sri Madhureswari 
Films, Bangalore. 


U 

Neela, Productions, 65041 

Trivandrum. 

20-12-69 

U 

Shri B. M. Shankar, 65042 

Bangalore. ■ — — ■ — 

20-12-69 


With triangle mark. 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 65042-U, dated 20-12-69— issued to the film ‘Kanneeru’ (Kannada). 
(35 mm.). 


Length as in the application. — 3779-52 Mts. 


Cuts — 



Metres 

1. 

Reel 

4. — Delete the shots where the Manager hugs the girl and Sujatha is 
lying down with her breasts heaving up and down 

3-04 

2_ 

Reel 

5. — Delete the dialogue of Dhanalakshmi to her husband the 
Zamindar, where she refers to his mouth as ‘Baaya 
Bombaaya’ . . . . . . . . 

4-56 

3. 

Reel 

9. — Delete the shot showing Dr. Sampath taking Bhagya’s signature 
on a piece of paper to effect divorce 

5-16 

4. 

Reel 13. — Delete the shot of the Police Inspector removing his cap and 
paying obeisance to the dead villain (Jayanna) 

1 -52 


Total cuts . . . . . . . . . . 14-28 


Actual length of the film after cuts is . — 3765 -24 Mts. in 24 Reels. 

Particulars of films certified or refused Certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 

27 th December, 1969. 


B/5S606 ‘Gujarat Ni Vana- 301 -74(1) 
sampati” (Gujarati) 



(35 mm) (India). 


B/58614 

“Tandrusti Aur 

Tazagi” (Colour) 

(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

15-24(1) 

B/58615 

“State Bank for 

Service”, (Colour) 
(English) (35 mm) 
(India). 

30 -48(1) 

B/58635 

“Do Se Ek Bhali” 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 
(India). 

30 -48(1) 


B/58637 

“Theluppu Fotti” 

(Telugu) (35 mm) 
(India). 

30 -48(1) 


B/58636 

“Venmaikku Oru 

Potti” (Tamil) 

(35 mm) (India). 

30-48(1) 

B/58577 

“Science Report 

96-B” (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

151 -79(1) 

B/58545 

“Elektronky (Elec- 

186 -00(1) 

tronics)” (Czech) 

(16 mm) (Czechos- 
lovakia). 




BOMBA Y 

Director of Informa- 
tion, Government of 
Gujarat, Sachivalaya, 
Ahemadabad-1 5. 

Film Media, 47, 
Laxmi Insurance 
Bldg. Sir P. M. Rd., 
Bombay-1 . 

Aiyars Advertising 
and Marketing Ltd., 
Nirmal, 7th floor, 
Bombay-1 . 


Radio Advertising 
Service, Cecil 

Court, Landsdown 
Road, Appolo Bun- 
der, Bombay-1 1 . 

Do. 


Director of Informa- 
tion, Government of 
Gujarat, Ahemeda- 
bad-15. 

Jyoti G. Thakur, 
Film, Media, Bom- 
bay-1 


Jyoti G. Thakur, 
Film Media, 47, 
Laxmi Insurance 
Bldg. Sir P. M. Rd., 
Bombay- 1. 

Radio Advertising 
Services, Bombay-1 . 


Do. 


U 

60042 


22-12-69 

U 

60043 


22-12-69 

U 

60044 


22-12-69 


U 

60045 


22-12-69 


U 

60046 


Do. 


22-12-69 

U 

Do. 60047 


22-12-69 

U 

U. S. Information Robert Foster, 60048 

Service. Fazal (U.S.A.). 

Bhoy House, Marine 22-12-69 

Lines, Bombay. 

U 

National Education Czechoslovak Films, 60049 

and Information (Czechoslovakia). — - — — 

Films Ltd., Na- 22-12-69 

tional House, 

Tulloch Road, 

Bombay. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 1811 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

B/58439 

“Nehru : Man of 
Two Worlds” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.K.). 

511 -34(5) 

National Education & 
Information Films 
Ltd. National House, 
Tulloch Rd., Bombay. 

B.B.C. (U.K.) 

U 

60050 

— 




22-12-69 

U 

60051 


B/58524 

“Premier On Parade” 
(Colour) (English) 

(35 mm) (India). 

561 -73(2) 

Premier Tyres Ltd. 
Merchants Cham- 

bers, New Marine 
Lines, Churchgate, 
Bombay. 

National Education 
and Information ■ 

Films Ltd., Bombay. 

— 



22-12-69 


B/58420 

“Pyasi Sham” (Colour) 
(Hindi) (35 mm) 

(India). 

4829-56(18) 

Kew? 1 Kumar, Ke- 
waljit Productions, 
5, 2nd floor. Air 
Conditioned Mkt. 

Tardeo, Bombay-34. 

Kewal Kumar, Ke- 
waljit Production, ■ 

Bombcy-34. 

u 

60052 

— 



23-12-69 

U 

60053 


B/58514 

“Mr. Johnson Had 
The Course” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

304-80(1) 

Theodore Bt wlir.g 

S. J. De Nobill 
College, Poona-14. 

Insight (U.S.A.). 

— 




23-12-69 

U 

60054 


B/58506 

“Trial By Fire” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

304-80(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

— 





23-12-69 

U 

60055 


B/58509 

“Boss Toad (No. 
148)” (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.Ai). 

304-80(1) 

Do. 

Insight, (Jade Shah) 
(U.S.A.). 

— ■ 




23-12-69 

U 

60056 


B/58508 

“Why Sparrows 

Fall No. 170” 

(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

“Perennial- Problem 
(No. 121)” (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) 

(U.S;A.). ' 

304-80(1) 

Do. 

Insight (James Loren) 
(U.S.A.). 

Insight (U.S.A.) 

— 

B/58503 

304 -80(1) 

Do. 

23-12-69 

U 

60057 






23-12-69 

U 

60058 


B/58504 

“Snow In Summer 
(No. 178)” (Eng- 
lish) (16mm) (U.S.A.). 

304 -80(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

— 





23-12-69 

U 

60059 


B/58S05 

“The Truth About 
Time No. 175” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

304 -80(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

— 





23-12-69 

U 

60060 


B/58502 

“Look Back To 

The G rden No. 
197” (English) 

(1 6 mm) .(U.S.A.). 

304 -80(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

— 





23-12-69 


B/58507 

“The Oleander 

Years (No. 171)” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

304 -80(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

u 

60061 

— 





23-12-69 



U 


B/58544 

“The Cities : To 
Build The Future” 
(Colour) (English) 

(16 mm) (U.S.A.). 

594 -36(2) 

U. S. Information 
Service, 4, New 

Marine Line, Bom- 
bay-20. 

C.B. S. News, (U.S.A.)."' 60062 

24-12-69 


B/58541 

“Cosmopolis” (Co- 
lour) (English) (16 
mm) (U.S.A.). 

561 -75(2) 

Do. 

U 

John H. Secondari 60063 

and Helen Jean 

Rogers, (U.S.A.). 24-12-69 

— 

B/58631-33 

“Bibies Around 

The World Love 

” (Colour) 

(35 mm) (India). 

30(1) 

Widescreen, 4, Shirin, 
Colaba Post Office, 
Bombay-5. 

(J 

Widescreen, Bombay-5 60064 

24-12-69 

Valid for Ban- 

gali, English, 

and Hindi ver- 

sions. 

B/57819 

Trailer of “Marl awe” 
(Colour) (Wide- 
screen) (Enalish) 

(35 mm) (U.S.A.). 

38 -53(1) 

Metro-Goldwyn Mayer 
India Ltd. Metfp 
House, M. G. Redd. 
Bombay. 

, U 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 60065 
(UtS.A.). 

24-12-69 

With triangle mark. 


299GI/70 — 16 



1812 


THE GAZETTE OF ITn’DIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) [Fart 3-Sec. 4 



(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 


Endorsement . — 







Original length : — 47 

•85 m. 






Delete all the shots 

of dancer in 

semi-nudity in Cabaret.- 

-9 -32 m. 




Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be- 

-38 -53 m. 

U 

60066 


B/58679 

"Indian News Re- 
view No. j 107” 

(A) Special (35 mm) 
(India). 

250 -24(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24, Pedder 
Rd., Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, Bombay-26. 

Valid for 14 versions. 



24-12-69 


B/5864S 

"Indian News Re- 
view No. 1 107” 

(35 mm) (India). 

212-75(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

60057 

Valid for 14 versions. 





24-12-69 





B/58651-52 


B/56706 


B/5S351 


"The Ballad ol 
Alma Gerlayne” 
(English) (16 mm) 
(U.S.A.). 

"Mankind His Fa- 
mily (Nanak Sa- 

fi aki Sanja)” (35 mm) 
(India). 


“Inadmissible Evi- 
dence” (English) 
(35 mm) (U.K.). 


304-80(1) Theodore Bowling Insight, (U.S. A.) 
S. J. De Nobill 
College. Poona-14. 


3.81 -00(1) Nazar Ahmed and Bisrnil Ludhiyanvi, 
Chitra Veni, 212, Buirdra, Bombay-50. 
Plot 2nd floor, 

B. J. Road, Band- 
stand, Bandra, Bom- 
bay-50. 


U 

60058 

27-12-69 

U 

60069 

27-12-69 


2905 -43(10) Paramount 

of India 


Films Ronald 
Ltd., (U.K.). 
Hague Bldg. Sprott 
Road, Bombay-1 . 


Kinnoch, 


A 

2641 

24-12-69 


Valid for Hindi 
and Punjabij^ver- 
sions. 


With triangle mark. 


Endorsement . — 

Original length . — 2923 03 m. 

Reel IV : Delete shots of the strip-teaser in which she is shown in 
the nude, all the shots where she is bare-back and dancing and also 
nude shots _ _ 9 -90m, 

Reel V : Reduce shots of love-making between Maitland and Joy 

when the former is shown to be reclining over her _ _ 7, 70m. 

( Length retained . — 8 -00m.) 

Length of deletions . — 17 -60 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be . — 2905 *43 m. 


3891-94(6) Columbia Films of Robert Emmett Ginna, 
India Ltd. Metro (U.S.A.). 

House, M. G. Road, 

Bombay. 


“Before Winter 

Comes” (Colour) 

(English) (35 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 

Endorsement . — 

Original length. — 2894*07 m. 

Reel III : Delete the shots of Maria lying in bed with Janovic in which 
her bare bosoms are seen . . ._ ... ... — 


A 

2642 


With triangle mark. 


24-12-69 


2*l3m. 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be . — 2891 -94m. 

ENDORSEMENTS 

VERSIONS 

B/5S623. 

Film . — “Nava Nishari” (Hindi and Punjabi) 

U-55277, dt. 29-10-68. 

This certificate is valid also for Marathi version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 
The certificate was endorsed on 24th December, 1969. 

B/5S634. 

Film. — “Mummy's First Choice” (English, Hindi, Tamil, and Malayalam) 

U-59601 , dt. 27-11-69. 

This certificate is valid also for Telugu version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The certificate was endorsed on 24th December, 1969, 

B'58624. 

Film . — “New Symbol” (Hindi, Tamil, and Malayalam) 

U-55749, dt. 29-11-68. 

This Certificate is valid also for Kannada version of the film. The length of the film remains unaltered. 

The Certificate was endorsed on 24th December 1969. 


Part III — Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KARTIKA 2, 1892) 


1813 









(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

( 6 ) 

(7) 


•C/6487 


C/6483 


Paschim 

Banga Sar- 

karer 

Sacgbad 

Chitra (5) Dec’ 69 

(Bengali) 

(35 mm) 

(India). 


Cal gas 

(Colour) 

(Bengali) 

(35 mm) 


(India). 


CALCUTTA 

U 

304-80(1) Ban'ndranath Saha, Barindranatb Saha, 58513 
18/B, Bipradas Street, 18/8, Bipradas Sirecl, 


Calcutta-9. 


Calcutta-9. 


25-12-69 


30-48(1) Image Films, 38, Image Films, 38, 58514 

Ballygunge Place, Ballygunge Place, — — 

Calcutta-19. Calcutta-19.- 25-12-69 


C/6480 Goop Choop (Hindi) 
(35 mm) (India). 


609-60(2) Chitrabawha, 307, Shri Amitahha Raay, 58515 

Jodhpur Park, Cal- C/o Chitrabawha, 

cutta-31. 307 Jodhpur Park, 27-12-69 

Calcutta-31. 

MADRAS 


M/5827 ‘Bandipotu Bhec- 3842 -30(13) Bhaskar Pictures, Shri D. Brahmay- 65043 With triangle mark. 

manna’ (Telugu) 13, Boag Road, yah, Bhaskar Pic 

(35 mm) (B. & W.) Madras-17. tures, 13, Boag Rd„ 23-12-69 

(India). Madras-17. 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 65043-U, dated 23-12-1969 issued lo the film ‘Bandipotu Bheemanna’ 
(Tdugu). (B.&W.). 

Length as in the application . — 3842 -30 Metres. 

Cuts : — Metres 

1 . Reel 2 . — Delete (a) the shot of the dancer lifting her leg and turning it at a 

man. (Replacement approved. 0-60) ... ... ... 0-60 

( b ) the prominent view of her breasts shake (first time) 

(Replacement approved) ... 0-60 

2. Reel 3. — (a) Delete the shot of Mohan lying with his head resting on 

the buttock of Leela .. .. _. 0-91 

(Replacement approved. 1-82) 

(b) Delete the shot of his head resting on her busts 

(Replacement approved ) . . . . 1-82 

3. Reel 5 . — Delete Leela’s dialogue “Chattam Chattamc, Katnam 

Katname” — 

(Replacement sound approved) 

4. Reel 6 . — Delete Honeymoon Rao’s sentence “Mana desamlo kooleeki 

visham tage vallu boledu mandi vannaru — 

(Sound only — replaced). 

5. Reel 9. — Song 4 — (a) In the water scene, delete the shot of Mohan catching 

Leela’s leg and moving his head from the leg upwards 2-43 

( b ) Delete the shot of his head at her busts just before the line 

“Nimma Pandu Lanti ” .. .. ... .. 3-64 

( Replacement for (a) and (b) approved). 

(c) Delete the shot of his leaning over her on the line “do 

boochu Iandindi” ... ... ... _ _. ... 1-52 

(Replacement approved). 

6. Reel 9 — Delete Honeymoon Rao’s dialogue “Mee pani ayir.da, Okata 

Renda” (Have you finished your work ? One or two ?) . . — 

(Sound only — replaced). 

Total replacement approved 11 ,52Metres. — — — • — 

Total cuts _. „. _ ... 11*52 

The actual length of the film after cuts , remains the same, namely 3842 Metres in 13 Reels. 


'M/5825 ‘Government of Ta- 
milnadu Regional 
Newsreel Bulletin 
19’ (Tamil) (35 mm) 
(B. & W.) (India). 


300-00(1) Principal, Institute, Principal, Institute 
of Film, Technology, of Film Technology, 
Madras. MtJras. 


27-12-69' 


M/5797 


‘Gejje Poojc’ (Kan- 4228-20(15) Chitra Jyothi, Gan- Chithra Jyothi, Gan- 


nada) (35 mm) 
(B. & W.) (India). 


dhinagar, Banga- dhinagar, Banga- 
lore-9. Iore-9. 


238 With triangle mark. 
27-12-69 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 238-A dated 27th December, 1969 — issued to the film ‘Gejje Pooje’ 
(Kannada). 

Length as in the application. — 4258-05 Metres. 




1814 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 24, 1970 (KART1KA 2, 1892) 


[Part Hi— S ec. 


(i) 


(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


Cuts Metres 

1. Reel 2.- — Delete the shots where the rich man hands over the money 

and shows a signal with his eyes 5-47 

2. Reel 2. — Delete the dialogue of the grandmother saying “Namage 

Preethiyalla Mukya Hana” 1-53 

3. Reel 11. — Delete the dialogue of Balakrishna referring to the Yugas when 

he compares himself to Lord Krishna .. .. .. .. 2-13 

4. Reel 1 1 . — Delete the dialogue between the college boys “You are one 

amongst the many passengers travelling in the bus"’ .. .. 3-34 

5. Reel 15. — Delete the shot where after the dance before God in the temple, 

the man is putting money into the plate 15 -54 

6. Reel 1 5.- — Reduce the duration of the shots where the girl is taken in 
a procession with Nagaswaram and the neighbours are looking 
at her... „. „. ... _. 3-04 


Total cuts 31-05 


Add Reel 1 — Insert of a tablet in the beginning of the film to the effect that the persons character*. 

portrayed in the film are not real persons, but purely imaginary. Addition approved 1 -2 O' 
Metres. 

Actual length of the film after cuts and approved addition inlReel 1, will be -4228-20 Meties in 15 Reels. 


M. V. DESAI 
Chairman, 

Central Board of Film Censors .. 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS,. FARIDABAD 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1970 


