REGISTERED No . D . 222 


TheGazette 


of India 


सत्यमेव जयते 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 6 ) 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1959/MAGHA 18, 1880 


NOTICE 


The underwentoncd Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published uplo the 26th January , 1959: 


Issue 


No. and date 


Iuued by 


Subject 


No. 


12. 


No. B - ITC (PN ) / 59 , dated 23rd Jani , 

ary , 1959 . 


Ministry of Cominerce and Industry . 


Import of equipment for Cement and Jutc 

Industries under Development Loan Fund , 


No. 3-Pres./59, cated 26th January, Office of the Secretary to the President. The President s Awards. 

1959 , 


Copla of the Gazettes extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to thc Manager of Publications, 
Civil Lind . Delhi. Indents should be pubmitted to as to reach the Manager within ten drys of the date of, we of 
there Gazette 


CONTENTS 


PAGES 


P * T 14 - - SX 1109 7 . - Statutary Rulcs and 

Orders notilied by the Ministry of Defence . 


PARTY - SHOTION 1. - Nociticoliozy relatiog to 

NOD -Statutory Ruics , Kegulation ang videry 
and Resolutions insurd by the Miniseries 
of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defenco ) ADIE 

by the Supreme Court . . 
PART I - SECTION - - Notifications regardir 

Appointments, Pru17101 , Leuve , 2 . 
of Government Oficer 189:21 " } 
the Ministries of the Government si 
India (other th :27 thc Minigtryo 

Defenco ) and by the Supreme Court , . 
PART I - SATION - - Notifications relating 

to Non - Statutory Rules, Kogulativas 
Order ? Au Reglucions, innued ) , thr 

Ministry of Defence . . . . . 
PART I--- SACTION 4 . - Notification regarding 

Appoiniaiente , Promotions, Leuve, etc , 
of Cicery, lusue:1 by the Ministry of 

Defence . . 
PART II - SECTION 1. - Acu , Ordinarcos 20 

Rogulations . . . . . . 
PART II - SEOTION 2 . - Billo aut Reports of 

Soloct Committons on Bills 
PART II - - SEOTION 9 . - SURSBOTION (i) - - General 

Statutory Rulcs (includiny orders, byo- laws 
etc ., of & goncral character ) issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India (orher 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authoritie (other than the Administration , 

of Union Torritorics ) . . 
Part II - - SLOTION 3 - SUB- SXOTION (11). - Statutory 

orders and notificadons foued by the Minis 
trio of the Government of India (other than 
the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Adrolaurations of 
Unio . Territoria ) 


PAGE IJJ - SEOTION : . - Notification , 1980ed by 

the Auriitors General, Union Public Scevice 
Communion, Railway Administration , High 
Courts , end the attached and Subordinate 
OHces of the Government of ladis 

( Fwoltshed at sila ) . . . . . 
PART III --- SECTION 2 . -- Notitications and Notice 

ixucd by the Patcpt Office , Calcutta 

(Publishwd at Sonlu ) 
PAAN III - - CZOTION 9 . - Notifications iogucci 

by or under the authority of Chief 

Commissioners (Published at Simic ) • • 
PANT III - SXOTION 4 . - Miscellancou Noti 

Acacions including qotifications, ordan , advor 
uçment and notico indused by Statutory 

Bodies (Published at Simla ) 
PABT IV -- Advertisement und Notices by 

Private individuals and Private bodies . 
(Published at Simla ) . . . . 


SUPPI.BMBNT No. 5 


Keported attacks and deaths from cholera , small, 

por, plague and typhus in districts in Indiu 

during week ending roth January , 1959 . 
Birth , pd deathe from principal discanos lo 

towny with a population of 30 , 000 and 
over in India during week endiny oth 
January , 1959 . 


215 


Cotton Press Return for weeks ending 3rd , Ioth , 

17th , 24th , and 318t October , 1958 . . 


3291 


( 57 ) 


58 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 7, 1959 / MAGHA 18 , 1880 


[PART 1 - SEO . 1 
- - - - - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


PART I - Section 1 


Notifications relatings of the Governmene Supreme Cou 


Notifications relating to Non -Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 

by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


CORRIGENDUS 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 


Vair Drilhi, the 28th January 1959 


RESOLUTION 


No. J (93 ) - TEX ( A ) / 58 . - In the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry Resolution No . 1 ( 33)- TEX ( 4 ) / 58 , dated the 14th 
January , 1959. published at page 18 of the Gazette of India , 
Purt 1, Section 1 dated the 24th January , 1959, 


New Delhi, thc 80th January 1939 


No. F. 22 (5 )-NS /88 . -- Smt. A . K . Verma, 1-B , Judges Court 
Road , Calcutta is nominated a Member of the West Bengal 
State Advisory Board , Women s Savings Campaign set up in 
this Department s Resolution No. F .8 ( 14 )-NS/56, dlated the 
29th October , 1956 . 


For 
" ] 8 . Shri C . H . Satya " 


Rrud 
" 18. Slıri Chandulal B . Satia " . 


2 . Smt. Meera Talukdar and Smt. Poornima Pakvasa , Mem 
bers of the West Bengal and Bombay State Advisory Boards 
respectively of the Women s Savings Campaign , set up under 
the Resolution referred to above , have resigncd , 


V . V . NENE, Under Secy . 


R . SARAN , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 


(Department of Agriculturc) 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 


CORRIGENDUM 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Import & Exports ) 


Ver Delhi, the $ 1.11 January 1959 


NOTICE 


New Delhi, the 30th January 1959 


No. CCI/SPE / CELL / 2 /59 . - It is hereby notified , that in 
exercķe of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports 
( Control) Order, 1955 , t ne Government of India , in the Minis 
try of Commerce & Industry propose to cancel Licence No. 
R997614 /57 /RC / CCI/HQ dated the 21st September, 1958 
valued at Rs 20 ,270 / - for the import of the following : 


No . 7-41 / 58-DD . – For para 2 ( 3 ) of this Ministry Resolution 
No . 27- 74 / 5G -LS. (lated the 17th August, 1956 , as amended by 
this Ministry s Corrigendum No . 27 -74 / 50 - LS , dated thic 22nd 
December. 1958 , please read " Sori K . Sachidanandam , Deputy 
Financial Adviser , Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Depart 
ment of Agriculturc) and dclctc thc words or his representa 
live " . 


Description 


Class 


Quantity 


Itom 
No. 


Orderol that a copy of this corrigendum le communicated 
to the Government of U . P ., Punjab and Delhi State . all 
Ministries of the Government of India , tlie Dcputy Financial 
Adviser, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of 
Agriculture ), Cabinet Secretariat , Prime Minister s Sccrcta 
niat, the Private and Military Secretaries Lo the President, 
Planning Commission , the Comptroller and Auditor General 
of India , the Accountant General, Central Revenucs , the Pay 
& Accounts Officer , Ministry of Food & Agriculture , the 
Indian Council of Agricultural Research , the Director Gene 
ral of Health Services, the Chief Engineer , C .P . W . D ., Lok 
Sabha and Rajya Sabha Secretariat. 


II / S2 


10 Nos. 
( Ten Numbers .) 


Relay line Single element 
vane style, “ B . 4 " 2 posl 
tion with 4 F in 4 B , 
dependent contacts to 
operate on 50 Cycles to 
W . B . S . S . Coy & s Cat, 
No. 8 /3A /4 or similar , 


Ordered also that thc Corrigendum be published in the 
Gazette of India for general information . 


D . RAMIAH , Under Secy. 


J / 29 


3500 ft. ( Three 
thousand five 
hundred feet 
only .) 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 


Round strand steel Wire 
Rope Special extra flexi 
ble for cranes extra speci 
al improved plough steel 
tensile strength 115/ 125 
tone per sq . inch basic 
grade 4 " crif. 6 /61 court 
nominal breaking load 
$ 5 . 6 tops to IRS Spec . 
No, H - 13 -54 . 


RESOLUTION . 


New Delhi, the 28th January 1959 


No. F .3 +- 12 /57 - B . 3 . - In partial modification of Ministry of 
Education Resolution No. F .31- 12 /57- B .5 , dated the 19th May , 
1958 , it has been resolved that Dr. (Mrs.) Phulrenu Guha will 
be deemed lo have been appointed as a regular Member of 
the National Committee on Women s Education . 


from the Soft Currency Area except South Africa , granted by 
the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi, to 
McS9 , Continental Engineering & Supply Co., Opposite kama 
Market, Asaf Ali Roal, New Delhi, unless sufficient cause 
against this is furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports 
& Exports , New Delhi within ten days of the date of issue of 
this notice , by the said Messrs. Continental Engineering and 
Supply Co ., Oppositc Kamla Karket, Asal Ali Road , New Delhi, 
or any Bank , or any other party, who may be interested in it. 


ORDER 


2 . In view of what is stated above , Messrs. Continental 
Engineering & Supply Co ., Opposite Kamla Market, Asal Ali 
Road , New Delhi, or any Bank , or any other Party . who may 
bc interested in the said licence No. R 997611/57 / RC / CCI/HO 
dated 21st September, 1958 are hereby directed not to enter 
into any commitments against the said licence and return 
it immediately to the Chief Controller of Jinports & Exports , 
New Delhi. 


Orilerel that ac Resolution de communicated to all the 
Ministries of the Government of India , All the State Govern 
ments, Planning Commission , Calinet Secretariat, Secretary , 
Central Advisory Board of Education , Secretary. All India 
Council for Secondary Eclucation , Secretary , All India Coun 
cil for Elementary Eclucation , Secretary , Central Social Welfare 
Board, Sccrctary , univcrsity Grants Commission , Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India anel Secretary , Department of 
Parliancntary Hairs (with © parc copics). 


Ordered also that thic Resálution be 
Gazette of India for general information . 


published in 


the 


S . N . BILGRAMI, Chief Controller , 


K . G . SAIYIDAIN , Secy . 


PART I - SEQ . 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 7, 1959 /MAGHA 18 , 1880 


- 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 

AFFAIRS 


Vuil Delhi, thew 21 


February 1959 


No. F . 12 -51/ 58 . C . 2 .-- The Government of India in the Minis 
to y of Scientihc Rcscarch and Cultural Affairs have accepted 
the resignation of Prof. J. P . Niyogi of the Calcutta Univer 
sity from llic Governing Council of the National Library , 
Calculia , with ellect from 13th October 1958 . Prof. Nihatran 
jjan Ray, M . P . is nominated as the representative of the Cal 
culta University on the Governing Council with effect from 
the same late vicc Prof. Niyogi for the remaining terin of 
une present Council. 

V . P . AGNJHOTRI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Transport ) 

( Transport Wing) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 23rd fanuary 1959 
No. 6 -MT (33) /58 . - In the Government of India , Ministry of 
Transport & Communicationg , Department of Transport, 
( Transport Wing ), Resolution No. 6 -MT (33 ) /58 publisned on 
page 328 of the Gazette of India Part I - Section 1 Jated the 
20th December 1958 , the following amendments may be 
madc: -- 
( i) For the words in Col. 2 , against cntry No. 19 " Repre 

sctative of the Bombay Port Trust" icad " Repre 

sentative of the Madras Port Trust " . 
( ii ) For the words in Col. 1 , against entry No. 16 

“ Deputy Conservator" read " Harbour laster & Dred 
ger Superintendent" . 

J. V. DASS , Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 


Ver Delhi, the 2nd February 1959 
No. 3 ( 1 ) / 158 - SRI, — Tlie following amendment may be macle 
in the late Ministry of Natural Resource & Scientific Research 
Notilication No . 28 (4 )/56-SRI, dated the 3rd April, 1956 : 

Under the heading " Governing Body " for the Existing 
rentry at Serial No . 8 Substitute 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 30th January 1959 
No . 21 / 5 / 58 - FC . - The Government of India have decided 
that in the Resolution of the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No . 21 / 5 /58- FC , dated the 8th December, 1958 , 
in Rule 12(1), after the word " Gujrati " the word " Sindhi " 
shall be inserted . 

Ordered that the Rcsolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information . 

D . R . KHANNA, Under Socy . 


" Financial Adviser to the Council of Scientific and Indug 
trial Research and the Ministry of Scientific Rescarch and 
Cultural Affairs. 


K . P . RABINDRANATHAN , Under Sccy . 


REGISTERED No. D . 222 


TE 


The Gazette um 


of Endia 


सत्यमेव जयते 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 7 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , FEBRUARY 14 , 1959/MAGHA 25, 1880 


w 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 6th February, 1959 : 


No . and duto 


Inrued by 


Subject 


Issue 
No , 


- 


- - 


- 


14 No . 1/ETC (PN )/ 59, dated 5lle Febru . 

ary , 1959, 


Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 


Export of monkeys for medical research ctc - 

prosedure for regulating. 


18 No . 9-ITC (PN ) /59 , dated 816 Febru . 

ary , 1989 . 


Do. 


Import for licences issued 10 Established Ex 

portery under the Export Promotion 
Scheme- Bond condition on 


Copies of the Gazettes extraordinary mentionod above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
Civil Lines Delhi. Indents should be submitted to us to reach the Manager within ten dayı of the date of ime of 
chake Gazetta 


CONTENTS 


PAGES 


PAGES 


PAXT IL SOTION 4 . - Statutory Rulo And 

Order notificd by the Ministry of Dofonco . 


2 ] 


Part III - SHOTION 1 . - Notifications issued by 

the Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commision , Railway Administration , Higb 
Courts, and the Attached and Subordinate 
Office of the Government of India 
( Published at Stada ) . 


PALT III — SJOTION 2. - Notifications and Notice 

issued by thic Patent Once , Calcutta 
( Published at Simla ) 


Nil 


PART III - - SEOTION 3. - Notifications 

by or under the authority of 
dommissioner (Published at Simla ) 


Inuod 
Ohior 
. . 


PART 1 - SBaTiOx I. - Notifications raladog to 

Non -Statutory Rules , Regulations and Ordor 
und Resolutions insued by tho Ministries 
of the Government of India ( other 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and 
by the Supreme Court 

. . 
PART 1- SECTION 9. - Notification regarding 

Appointments, Promotions , Leavo , etc. 
of Government Onicera insued by 
the Minjstries of the Government of 
India ( other than the Ministry of 

Dofence) and by the Suprome Court . . 
PART 1 - SXOTION 3 . - Notifications relating 

to Non - Statutory Rula , Regulations, 
Ordon and Raolutions, inued by the 

Ministry of Defonco . . . . . 
PART 1 - SECTION 4 . - Notification regarding 

Appointment , Promotions , Lcave , etc. 
of Officers, inued by tho Ministry of 

Defence . . . . . . 
PART II - SACTION I, -- Act , Ordloancok und 
Regulations . . . 

. . 
Per II - SXOTION 9. --- Billo and Reports of 

Soloct Committons on Billa . . . 
PART 11 - SZOITON 8 . - Sur-SETION (1) — General 

Statutory Rules ( including orders, byo - law 
etc ., of a goneral character) iquod by the 
Minlatria of the Government of India ( other 
than the Ministry of Defenco ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration ! 
of Unlon Torritorics ) . 

. . 
PART II SHTON 3 SU - SLOTION ( II ). Statutory 

orden und notifications inued by the Mini 
tra of the Government of India (other than 
the Ministry of Defenco ) And by Centrul 
Authorition (other than the Administration of 
Union Taritorla ) . 

. . 


PART III - SBOTION 4 . - Micellancou Not . 

Acations including notifications, ordan , advar . 
dipement and notico ima by Statutory 
Bodia ( Published at Simla ) 


PART IV - Advertisement 

Privato individuals 
( Pwllished at Simlo ) 


and Noticot by 
and Private bodia . 


SUPPLEMANT No . 6 


269 


Reported Attact and deaths from cholera , small . 

POI, plague and typhus in district in India 
during weet onding 17th January , 1959 . 


Birthy and death , from principal diodo lo 

towo with population of 30, 000 and 
over in India during Wook coding 17th 
January , 1959 . 


3831 


( 61 ) 


62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 14. 1959 /MAGHA 25 , 1880 


[PART 1 - SEC, 1 


PART I - Section 1 


Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rules , Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of Indis ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by 

the Supreme Court 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

Nerer Delhi, the 6th Frbruary 1959 
No . 44/ 13 / 58 -Poll( I ). — The following statein / ut showing the number of peryong in detention under the Preventive Detention 
14 of 1950 ). in various States as on the 31st Deceruler, 1958 , is published for general information : 


Art. 


1950 


No , of persons in detention under the Preventive 
Detention Act, 1950 , on the 31st December, 1958 


Name of the Slate 


Grand 
Total 


Detained under Bertion 

Detained 
3 ( 1) (a ) 

under 
- Section 

(1 ) ( bi 
Clauec ( ) Clause (1 ) Clause ( iii ) Total 

Cols . 2 - 4 


- 


1. Andhra Pradesli 
2 . Assam 
3. Bihar 
4 . Bombay 
5 . Kerala 
6 . Madhya Pradesh 
7 . Madras 
8 . Mysore 
9 . Orissa 
10 , Punjab 
1 . Rajasthan . 
12 . Uttar Pradesh 
13 . West Bengal 
11 . Dellii 
15 . Himachal Pradesh 
16 . Manipur 
17. Tripura 


Toral 


. 


. 


. 


. 


:3 


08 


. 


71 


7 2 


N . SAHGAL , Jl. Sect . 


1. Ordered uls that the Resolution licet plublished in the 
Gazette of india , Part I ripetion 1. 

P JOHARI, Ry Sery. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

RESOLU I ION 

Vrh Delhi, the 5th February 1959 
No. F . 22 (5 )-NS / 58 , -- Smit. Sharda Parikh , whose resignation 
Iran the membership of the Bombay State Advisory Board 
Woincn s Saviugx Campaign was announced in the Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) Resolution No . 
F . 22 (5 )-NS/ 58, dated the 15th December , 1958 . is re - nominat 
ert a Member ot that Boarel. 

Smt. Kamula Bawal and Sim 1 . M . halvla . Vire 
Chairman and Member respectively of the Rajasthan State 
Advisory Board of the Women s Savings Campaign lave 
sexigner . 

R . SARAN , Under Secy 


I . - - — 


- 


. 


- . . - 


. 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


NIINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

RESOLUTION 
Notr Dchi, che 3rd Fra 1950 
No. 910 ) , 57 -Salt . - Shri K . Ramaswamy Naidu , 8 / 66 , Tiicly 
Rond , Ramanathapuram , Coimbatore , has been appointer is 
il member of the Sadras Regional Board for salt rick Shri G 
itonizoujan resigned , 

ORDEK 
Ordered that thrix Resolulion he communicauri to „ 1) Scale 
Goveraincnt , all liniaries of the Government of India . Plan . 
ning Coromission Cabinet Scorelariat and Prime Minister s 
Secretariat, 


New Delhi, the 6th February 1959 
No. 11- 591 ( B ) (0 ) / 56 . - In pursuance of bye-law 17 of the 
Registered Bye -laws of the Family Wellarc Co -operative Indu 
trial Society Lul, Vijayawaulit, the Government of India here 
by extend the lor of the Committee constituted in Huis 
Ministry s Notification No. 11 -LI ( B ) (8 ) / 56 , dated the 5th 
June, 1957, uplu and including the 31st January , 1959 . 

No . ] I-SSI ( B ) (8 ) / 50 .- In pursuance of bye-law 17 of the 
Registered By-lawn of the Family Welfare Co-operative Insur 
trial Society Lid ., Vijayawada , the Governinent of India liero 
by noininaies with cffect from the 1st February , 1959 , and upto 
tunci including the 1711 May, 1960 , the Managing Committee 
of the said society, and directs that it shall consist of the 
1ollowing uchulern , namely : 
1 Shriarati A . C . Krishna Rao . Chairman , Andhra 

J radesh Social Weltare Advisory Board . Hyderabad . 
2. Kumari Į. Jamiona Bai, Director, Women s Welfare , 

Andhra Pradesh Hyderabad , 
Shrimati l urlapali Janakamma, C / Shri T Sitarama 

janajulu , Satyanarayanapuram , Vijayawada . 
1. Mrs. Bangaru Raju . C / o Chief Engineer : Cement 

Factory, Vijayawada. (Krishna District). 
☆ Mis . Suseela Devi, C / O Mylavaram Zamindar. Yarya 

narayanapuram , Vijayawada (Krislina Districi). 
6 . Mrs. Anathayya . Watyanarayanapuradi , Vijayawada. 

(Krishna Distt.). 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


Paxt 1 - Szc. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 14, 1959 /MAGHA 25, 1880 

- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - 
7. Mrs . Subbalaxmi, C / o Burmah Shell Inspector, 

OWEK 
Satyanarayanapuram , Vijayawada . (Krishna Distt.). 

Ordered that a copy of this Resolution be communicated 
# Shri Mu , 1 y , B .Sc. Patch Papiah 

to the Private Military Secretaries to the Prcsident, the Prime 
Road , I , I : 

Minister s Secretarian, the Cabinet Secretariat , the Planning 
9. The Deputy Registrar ol Cooperative Sociсtics, Commission , ļhe Ministries of the Government of India , al 
Vijayawada . 

the State Government , the Port Trusts, Bombay and Madras, 
10 . The Assistant Director of Industries and Commerce , 

tle Pont Commissioners, Calcutta , the Cochin Harbour 
Governinent of Andhra Pradesh , Vijayawada. 

Authority , the Visakhapatnam Port Authority and the Director 

General of Shipping , Boubay . 
11. Director, Small Industries Service Institute, Hyderebad . 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
N , S . VAIDYANATHAN , Under Secy . Gazette of India for general information . 


NAGENDRA SINGH , JL. Secy 


- 


- 


- - 


( Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

NOTICE 
Veu Delhi, the 5th February 1959 
No. CCI/ SPI /AI- IV / CELL / 5 /89, - IL is hereby notificil, 
liat in exerci4c of the powers conferred by clause 9 of this 
Impons Control) Ordet, 1955 , the Government of India , in 
hc Ministry of Commerce and Industry propoge to cancel 
Licence No . A012177 / 58 /A CCI/ HQ datel 6th Deceinber 
1958 vluch 11 Rs. 8 ,750 for the import of Purnp Calibrating 
Machine, Mathematical & Drawing Instruments, Cellulost, 
Idhesive Tape and Slide Rulcs from the Soft Curcncy Arca 
XCC South Ifrica , grilled by the Chief Controller of 
Imports & Exports, New Delhi, Lo Mests . Tlie Registrar , King 
Edward Research Institute , Near Railway Station , Saharanpur 
U . P . unless suficient cause against this is furnished to the 
Chiet Controller ot Imports & Bxports, New Delhi within 
en days of the date of issue of this notice , by the said 
Icosts. The Registrar, King Edward Rescarch Institute . 
Vear Railway Station , Saharanpur U .P . or any Bank , or any 
other party , who may be interested in it, 

2. In vicw of what is stated above Messrs. The Registrar 
king Edward Research Institute , Near Railway Station . 
Sahaunpuu U . P . or any Bank , or any other party , who may 
lic intercsicut in the sand licence No . A 912477 / 58 / AU / CCL 
HQ datel 6th December 1958 are hereby directed not to 
cnter into any commitments against the said licence and 
rerum it immediately to the Chick Controller of Imports and 
Expuris. New Delhi. 

5 . N . BILGRAMI, Chief Controller . 
of Iinports and Exports. 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 

AFFAIRS 
Ver Dell . Hic 7612 trbruary 1959 
in the matter of Nugar tiducation Endowment Trust Upper 

Inulin , Lucknow . 
No . F . 12 -3 / 58 -C .1 . - Whereas an application has been made 
trough the Government of L . P . by the committee of 
management of the Nagar Education Endowment Trust, 
Upper India . Luschrow , that the securities specified in the 
Schedulc hcreto annexed be vested under the designation of 
Thc said Trust in the Treasurer of Charitable Endowpients 
for lucid to be applied in trust upon the terms contained in 
The schienne ol administration of the Trust published by the 
Government of Uttar Praclesh in their notilication No . 798 / 
XX - 385 - 1924 , dlatel 20th October 1925 ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the 
sub -section (1 ) of section of the Charitable Endownichts 

Art, 1890 (6 of 189 ) llie Central Governincnt hcrchy directs 
that the security specibed in the schedulc hcrcto annexed 
xhall be vested in the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments 
for India upora the terms of the said Schedulc . 

THE SCHEDULE 
PO) National Saving Certificate ingued by the Post Oface 
it Aminabad Park , Lucknow in tavour of the Nagar Educa 
vion Endowment Trust . Upper India . 
No . F / 0 25114 (Ref. No . 165 ) for Rs. 1,000 . 

K . P . RABINDRANATHAN , Under $ ccy 

- - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 

(Departnent of Transport ) 

( Transport Wing ) 

RESOLUTION 
New Dellei, iar 411 February 1959 
No. 6 -MT (38 ) /18 . - In partial nodification of the Ministry 
of Transport & Communications , Department of Transport 
( Transport Wing), Resolution No . 6 -MT (35) /58 , dated the 
15th December, 1958 , the Central Government has been 
pleased to appoint Shri L , W . Balcombe, a representative of 
che Calcutta Liners Conference (Crews), Calcutta , to be a 
number of the National Welfare Board for Seafareis nice 
Shri M . R . Das , resigned . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

RESOLL TION 
New Delhi-2. the 5th February 1959 
No. 1 / 29 /58 - FP . - It superscasion of the Resolution of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Internation and 
Broadcasting No . 1 / 51 / 54- F , dated thic 2nd February, 1957, 
the tollowing rules are notified in regard to the working of 
The Film Allvisory Board at Bombay and the approval of 
tms as scientihe films, films intended for cducational pur 
poxes , films dealing with news and current events and docu 
mentary films in accordance with thic directions issucd by 
the Central Government under sub -section (4 ) of vection 12 
of thc Cinematograph Act, 1952 ( 37 of 1982) and by the 
various State Governments under the corresponding State 
Lawy. These rules shall come into force with effect from 
Monday , the 16th February , 1959. 

RULES 
1. The function of Hic lilm Advisory Board shall be to 
tuake recommendations to the Central Government regard 
ing the suitability of files for approval as scientific filins. 
films intended for cducational purposcs, films dealing with 
news and current events or documentary films in accordance 
with the directions issued by the Central Government under 
yub -section (1 ) of section 12 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 
(37 of 1952) and by the State Governments under the 
corresponding State Laws 

The Board shall consist ot not less than seven WCHOIX 
as follows: 
( 2 ) Charman of the Central Board oC Flini Cerisoru - 

LX-Officio Chainoan . 
1l ) Regional Olicus of the Central Bourd of Filin Censos, 

Bombay - Ex-Oficio Member . 
( C ) A member of the Advisory Panel of the Central 

Board of Filin Censors , at Bombay, nominated by 

the Central Government. 
( d ) Not Icss than four other members, including at least 

une person with knowledge of films and silin -making 
and one clicationist, nominated by the Central 

Government 
Explanation . - The Additional Regional Ollicer o the 
Assistant Regional Officer shall act as an ex - officio metuljet 
in any mccting of the Board whiclı the Regional Oficer 
does not atteud . 

9 . Meinbers other than the on - officio weinberm shall hold 
office for a period of one year. 

4. Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 5 , thc Cen 
tral Government inay at any time terminate the mepbership 
of any member of the Board before the expiration of the 
period specified in that rule. 

5 . The Regional Officer of the Cential Board of Film Cen 
yurs at Bombay shall be the Secretary of the Board . 

6 . The non -ofhcial members of the Board may be paid 
such travelling allowance for attending meetings of the Board 
as the Central Government way . from time to time, ceter . 
mine , 


- - 


- 


7. No act or procecding of Ilie Board shall be called in 
question on the ground merely of the cxistence of ajiv vacar y 
it or defect in the constitution of the Board . 

8 . Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the 
Chairman , and , in his absence , by a member clector bi the 
meubers present from amongst themselves . 

9. The quoruid of the Board shall be threc 

10 . The Board shall ordinarily meet once a week but a 
muceting of the Board may be called by the Chairman as often 
28 he considera necesary . 

11, Any person desiring the Board to consider thc puit: 
bility of any film for the purpose specified in rule 1 shall 
send an application in writing to the Secretary of the Board 
nating the title of the film , its length , the name of the pro 
ducer and such other particulars as may be required by the 
Board 


64 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 14 , 1959 /MAGHA 25, 1880 


[ PART I - SEC. 


: 


Films with lengths exceeding 2,000 feet in 35mm will not 
be entertained by the Board for the purpose of these rules. 

12 . After examination of the film by the Board , the opinion 
of cach miember present shall he recorded as to whether : 
( a ) the film is quitable for approval as i scientific lilm , 

filme intended for educational purposes , Alm dealing 
with news and current events or a documentary film : 


( d ) Representativcs, not exceeding ten in number , from 

amongat Engineers, Architects and Town Planner , 
not in the employ of the Central or the State Gov 

ernments, nominated by the Government of India . 
( c) Representatives , not exceeding eight in number, from 

amongst experts in the fields relating to Housing , 

nominated by the Government of India . 
( f) Two representatives nominated by the Government of 

India from Trade Awociations and Trade Unions. 
(III) Director, National Buildings Organisation will be Ex 
officio Member Secretary of the National Building Council. 

ORE 


ur 


(b ) the film would be suitable for approval in any . 

specific category ou carrying out specified excision , or 

modifications therein ; or 
( c) the film is not suitable for approval as a film in any 

of the said categories . 
13 . The opinion of the Board shall be in accordance with 
the opinion of the majority of the members present at the 
mecting and, in the event of 2 tie , in accordance with the 
•pinion of the presiding ollicer . 

14. (a ) If the opinion of the Board is that the film is 
Ruitable for approval 13 i scientific film , a film intended for 
educational purposcs, a Gulm dealing with news and 
current events or a clocumentary Gilm , the Chairinan shall 
make a recommendation to the Central Government in 
accordance with the opinion of the Board . 

(b ) If the opinion of the Board is as in clause (b ) or 
clause ( c ) of rule 12 , the Chairman shall communicate the 
opinion of thc Board to the applicant in writing and specify 
a date , not later than seven days from such coinmunication , 
within which he may , if he o desires, make a representation 
against the opinion of the Board . 

(c ) On expiry of the date so specified or on receipt of the 
representation , the Chaiman shall make a recomiendation 
10 the Central Government in accordance with the opinion 
of the Board and forward the representation made by the 
applicant, to the Central Government. 

(d ) If the applicant agrees to carry out the excisions on 
modifications specified by the Board , the Chairman shall, after 
satisfying himself that much excisione or modifications are 
arried out, forward the recommendation of the Board to the 
Central Government. 

15 . On receipt of the recommendation of the Board , the 
Central Government may , after considering the representation , 
if any, made under sub - rule (b ) of rule 14 and such enquiry 
as it may consider necessary , approve the film 23 suitable in 
Any category specified in rule 1 or pass such orders in the 
watter 18 it seems fit. 

16 . Films approved by the Central Government in any of 
the categories specificd in rulc I shall be notified in the 
Gazette of India , together with the name of the applicant, 
the title of the film , the name of the producer and the 
length of the film as approvedl and its category . 

R . K . RAMADHYANI, Secy , 


Ordered that a copy of the Resolution bc communicated 
to : 

( 1 ) National Buildings Organisation , New Delhi. 
( 2 ) Ministry of Scientific Revcarch and Cultural Affairs, 

New Delhi. 
(3) Ministry of Irrigation & Power , New Delhi. 
(4) Ministry of Health , New Delhi. 
( 5 ) Ministry of Railways (Railway Board), New Delhi. 
(6 ) Ministry of Defence, New Delhi. 
(7) Ministry of Labour & Employment, New Delhi. 
(8 ) Ministry of Commerce & Industry , New Delhi. 
(9 ) Ministry of Transport & Communications (Depart . 

ment of Transport), New Delhi, 
( 10 ) Ministry of Food & Agriculture, New Delhi. 
(11) Ministry of Finance (1. & W . Branch ), New Delhi. 
(12 ) C . E ., Central Public Works Department, New Delhi. 
(19) Director General of Health Services, New Delhi, 
( 14) Engineer -in -Chief, Army Headquarters , New Delhi. 
( 15 ) Council of Scientific and Industrial Rescarch , New 

Delki, 
( 16 ) Director , C .B . R . I., Koorkee. 
(17 ) President, Forest Research Institute, Dehra Dun . 
( 18 ) All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health , 

Calcutta , 
(19) Director, Indien Standards Institution, New Delhi. 
(20) All Slate Governments (Housing Secretarie ). 
(21) F . A . (I & W ) . 
Ordered also that thc Resolution be published in the 
Gazelle of India for general information . 

R . F . ISAR , Jt . Sccy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 4th February 1959 
No. WB-6 ( 12 ) . - Conscquent upon the death of Shri Som . 
nath P . Dave , M . P ., 2 member representing workers on the 
Central Wage Board for Cement Industry, the following 
unendment is made in para 2 of the Ministry of Labour ani 
Employment Resolution No. WB- 6 (5 ), dated the 2nd April, 
1958 : 

Amendment 
" In Item (1 ) under the heading MEMBERS REPRESENT 
ING WORKERS for Shri Somut P . Dave , M . P ., substitute 
Shri H . N . Trivedi," 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1959 
No. HII-5 (27) / 57-HTV -( ii). - In superscssion of this Minis 
try s Resolution No. HII - 4 (8 ) / 51, dated the oth February , 
1956, regarding the constilution of a National Building 
Council to guide and direct the activities of the National 
Buildings Organisation , it has been decided that until further 
orders, the Council shall be constituted 24 follows: 

(I) President - Union Minister for Works, Housing and 
Supply . 
(II) Members 
(2 ) Ministers nominated by the States to be in charge 

of Housing in their respective States, 
(5 ) Ministry of Railways (Railway Board ), New Delh . 

Buildings Organisation , other than Chief Enginçery 
of the State Governments; these Qalef Engineers may , 
however, if 80 desired by thc Housing Ministers of 
their respective States, act as their alternates on the 

Council. 
( C) A representative cach nominated by the Ministries of 

Transport & Communications (Department of Trans 
port) and Irrigation & Power, 


OR 


Ordered chat a copy of the Resolution be communicated 
10 : 

(i) All Slale Covernments and Union Territories. 
(ij) All Ministries of the Government of India and the 

Planning Commission . 
(iil) All - India Organisations of Employers and Workers. 
Ordered alm) llant the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for general information . 

P . M . MENON , Secy 


