रजिस्ट्री सं० डी० 222 


REGISTERED NO . D . 222 


. 


ETATAND 


मन्यमेव जयते 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- --- - - - - -- - -- - -- -- - - - - - - - --- - - ----- - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


सं० 187 
No. 18 ] 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, मई 5, 1973/ वैशाख 15 1895 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1973/ VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


ll managers 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - -- 


- 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या की जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलम के रूप में रखा जा सके 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 


- - -- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- --- - --- - 


भाग II -- खण्ड 3 -- उप- खण्ड (ii ) 

PART II - - Section 3 – Sub -section (il) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ राज्य क्षेत्र प्रशासनों को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकारियों द्वारा जारी किये गये विधिक मावेश और अधिसूचनाएं 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 

(other than the Ministry of Defence ) by Central Authorities 

(other than the Administration of Union Territories ) 


मंत्रिमंडल सचिवालय 
( कार्मिक और प्रशासनिक सुधार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 24 अप्रैल, 1973 
का . आ . 1229. सार्वजनिक रोजगार (निधास संबंधी अपेक्षा) 
अधिनियम , 1957 ( 1957 का 44) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1) 
के खंड ( ख ) और ( ग ) दवारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
भारत सरकार एतत्त्वारा हिमाचल प्रदेश, मणिपुर और त्रिपुरा सार्व 
जनिक रोजगार (निवास संबंधी अपेक्षा ) नियम , 1959 के विद्यमान 
नियम 3 ( 2 ) की जगह नियम 3 का निलिखित उनियम 
12 ) प्रतिस्थापित करसी " : 
"( 2) हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य के संबंध में , उपनियम ( 1) के 

प्रयोजन के लिए कोई भी व्यक्ति , जो हिमाचल प्रदेश में 
बाहर, राज्य सरकार के अधीन किसी भी पद पर नियक्त 
है , या जिसका हिमाचल प्रदेश में स्थायी घर , किनम 
रोजगार के कारण उक्त राज्य से बाहर रह रहा है , उस 
अवधि में , जिसके दौरान वह ऐसे पद पर नियस है 
अथवा हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य से बाहर रह रहा हो, हिमा 
चल प्रदेश में निवास करता हुआ समझा जायेगा । " 

[ सं . 7 / 2/ 71-स्थापना ( ग ) ] 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 
(Departnient of Personnel and Adininktrative Reforms) 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1973 
S. O . 1229. — In excrcise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( b ) and (c ) of sub - section ( 1) of Section 3 of the 
Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 
1957 ( 44 of 1957) the Government of India hereby substi 
tute the following sub -rule (2 ) of rule 3 in place of the 
cáisting Rule 3 ( 2 ) of the Himachal Pradesh Manipur and 
Tripura Public Employment (Requirement us to Residence ) 
Rules , 1959 :. 
"( 2 ) In the case of States of Himachal Pradesh for the 

purpose of suh rulc (1) any person , who is em 
ployed under the State Government in a post out 
side Himachal Pradesh ; or 
who has got a permanent home in Himachal Pradesh 
but oil account of his occupation he is living out 

side the said state ; 
shall be deemed to be residing in Himachal Pradesh for the 
period during which he has been holding such post or living 
outside the State of Himachal Pradesh " . 

___ [ No. 7 / 2 / 71 - Ests( C)] 

S. KRISHNAN , Deputy Secy. 
1693 


एमा. कृष्णन, उप चिय 


11 Gof I / 73 - 1 


1694 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 

- --- - - - -- -- - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
भारत निर्वाचन आयोग 

और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 

पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी 
आवंश 

करण नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी गमाधान हो 

गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या 
नई दिल्ली, 29 मार्च, 1973 

कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या 
का . आ , 1280.. न्यत: निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 

न्यायोचित्य नहीं है , 
है कि मार्च, 1972 में हुए हिमाचल प्रदेश विधान सभा के लिए अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन के लिए 38 मंगवाल निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त श्री मनीराम को संसद के किसी 
उम्मीदवार श्री मुशीराम सपुष श्री भल्लूराम , ग्राम अपरली बाळापाल भी सपन के या किसी राज्य की विधान- सभा अथवा विधान परि 
पर दुरीका , तहसील देहरा , जिला कांगड़ा, हिमाचल प्रदेश, लोक षद् के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख 
प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित करता है । 
सवारा अपेक्षित रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल 

[ सं . हि . प्र. वि . स ./ 38/ 72( 3) ] 
करने में असफल रहे है . 

ORDER 

S. O . 1231. -. Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
__ और यसः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 

that Shri Mani Ram , Son of Shri Amarnath , Village Tandoli, 
पर भी , अपनी इस असणलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी Post Office Pandițial, District Kangra at Dharamsala , 
करण नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 

Himachal Pradesh , u contesting candidate for the election 

held in March, 1972, to the Himachal Pradesh Legislative 
हो गया है । उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त Assembly from 38 -Mangwal constituency , has failed to lodge 
कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है , 

an account of his election expenses , as required by the Rep 
resentation of the People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made 

thereunder : 
____ अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में 

And whereas the said candidate , even after duc notices, 
निर्वाचन आयोग सवारा उक्त श्री मंशीराम को संसद के किमी huş not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा परिषद के 

thç Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 

reason or justification for such failurc ; 
सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित करता है । 

Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the paid Shri 

Mani Ram to bc disqualified for being chosen as , and for 
[ सं . हि. प्र. वि . स ./ 38 / 72( 4 ) ] being , a member of eithei House of Parliament or of the 

Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a state for å 

period of three years from the date of this order. 
ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

[ No. HP-LA / 38 / 72 ( 3 ) ] 
ORDER 

आपरा 
New Delhi , the 29th March, 1973 

का . आ . 1232. यत: निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
S . O . 1230 . - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 

है कि मार्च, 1972 में हए हिमाचल प्रदेश विधान सभा के लिए 
that Shri Munshti Ram , Son of Shri Thellu Ram , Village 
Uperli Badhopal Post Office Daroka , Tehsil Debra , District निर्वाचन के लिए 67- जोगिन्दरनगर निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने 
Kangra , Himachal Pradesh , a contesting candidate for the 

पाले उम्मीदवार श्री इन्द्र सिंह सुपुत्र श्री बैंसर राम , मकान नं . 201, 
election held in March , 1972, to the Himachal Pradesh 
Legislative Assembly from 38 -Mangwal constituency , hag वार्ड नं . 7, उत्तर समखेतर, मन्डी टाऊन , जिला मण्डी, हिमाचल 
failed to lodge on account of his election expenscs in the 

प्रदेश , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व , 1951 तथा तदधीन बनाए गए नियमों 
manner required by law , as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rulcs made thereunder; द्वारा अपक्षित रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल 
And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices , 

करने में असफल रह है , 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the l- lection Commission is satisfied that he has no food 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उस सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
reason oi justification for such failure ; 

पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टी 
Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 

करण नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Munshi Ram to be disqualified for being chosen , as and for 

हो गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त 
being, a member of eithei HOLISC of Parliament or of the 

कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है , 
Legislative Assembly 01 Legislative Council of a state for a 
period of three years froin the date of this order. 

अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में 
[ No. HP-I A / 38/ 72 ( 4 ) ] 

निर्वाचन आयोग एसद्वारा उक्त श्री इन्द्र सिंह को संसद के किसी 
आदेश 

भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा अथवा विधान परिषद के 

सवस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन 
का . आ . 1221.- - यत निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
है कि मार्च, 1972 में हए हिमाचल प्रदेश विधान सभा के लिए 

वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित करता है । 
निर्वाचन के लिए 38 मंगलवाल निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लडने गले 

[ सं. हि . प्र.-वि , स ./67 / 72 (5) ? 
उम्मीदवार श्री मनीराम सपत्र श्री अमरनाथ , पाम टंडाली, पो . आ . 
पडिटियाल , जिला कांगड़ा, धर्मशाला, हिमाचल प्रदेश लोक प्रस्त्रि 

ORDER 
निधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा सद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों धान S. O . 1232 . - whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 

that Shri Inder Singh , Son of Shri Besar Ram, House No. 
अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने 

201, Ward No. 7 , Uttar Samkhetar, Mandi Town District 
में असफल रहे है , 

Mandi, Himachal Pradesh , a contesting candidate for the 
election held in March. 1972 . to the Himachal Pradesh 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1695 
- - -- - - -- - - - - - 

- - - - - - 

- - = - - - - - - - - - - 
Legislative Assembly from 67- Joginder Nagar consti 

3 . Shri B . R . Nahata, 
luency, has failed to lodge an account of his olection c neo 

4. Shri J. M . Sood , & 
ses in the manner, as required by the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

5 . Shri A , S . Jha. 

Advocates 
And whcicas the suid candidate , evca after due notices , 
hus not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 

Counsel for the Petitioner 
the Election Cominişsion is satisfied that he has no good 
season or justification for such failure ; 

1. Shri K . A . Chitley , 

2 . Shri H . G . Mishra , 
Now , therefoic , in pursuance of section 101 of the said 

3 . Shri A , B . Mathur, 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Inder Singh to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 

4 . Sbri A . K . Chitley , 
being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 

5 . Shri Ranoji Rao Shinde, of 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a state for a 

6 . Shri P . L . Misbra . 
period of three years from the date of this order . 

Advocates 
[No. HP-IN /67 / 72 (3 ) ] 

Counsel for the Respondent. 
Te fet, 21 , 1973 

ORDER 
This is an election petition filed by Udhav Singh 

Raghuvanshi, an elector of Guna Parliamentary constituency , 
ofT. 31. 1233 - 14 offafury ffufae74 , 1950 1 

under section 81 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 
धारा 13- की उपधारा ( 1) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने ( hereinafter referred to as the Act ) , challenging the elec 

tion of the respondent, Shri Madhav Rao Scindia , who secured 
हए,निर्वाचन आयोग , मध्य प्रदेश सरकार के परामर्श से , छटी पर 

2 ,09, 950 votes and was declared elected from the aforesaid 
गए श्री एल , बी . सरजे के स्थान पर श्री बी . आर. दूर्व , सचिव , मध्य constituency by the Returning Officer, an the 11th of March , 

1971, at the mid -term Parliamentary Lok Sabha election of 
Ey , Pafet nere tenet TETETT 1 7 , 1973 TTE 

1971 , to be void on the ground that he had committed cor 
आदेशों तक, मध्य प्रदेश राज्य के लिए मुख्य निर्वाचन आफिसर के rupt practices coumerated in paragraph 10 of the petition . 

2 . There were six candidates who filed their nomination 
रूप में एतदद्वारा नाम निशित करता है । 

papers for the election of the House of People from Guna 

Parliamentary Constituency and out of these , Sharwa 
[p . 154 / 1, 4./ 73 ] Shri Shiy Pratap Singh and Gayaprasad duly withdrew their 

candidature after their nomination papers were found in order 
बी . एन , भारद्वाज , सचिव 

after their scrutiny, and the remaining four candidates, ( 1 ) 
Shri Madhav Rao Scindia , ( 2 ) Shri Deorao Krishnarao 

Jadhav, ( 3 ) Shri Narayan Singh Albela , and ( 4 ) Shri Bundel 
New Delhi, the 21st April , 1973 

Singh , ultimately contested the election and secured votes as 

ollows : 
$ .0 . 1233. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( i ) of section 13 A of the Representation of the 

1 . Shri Madhav Rao Scindia 

2 ,09 , 9 ,50 
People Act, 1950 , the Election Cominission , in consultation 

2 . Shri Deoran Krishnurao Judhav 
witli the Government of Madhya Pradesh , hereby nominates 

3 . Shri Narzyan Singh Albela 

i 17 ,656 
Shri B . R . Dube, Secietary to the Government of Madhya 

4 . Shri Bundel Singh 

... 7, 686 
Pradesh , Law and Legislative Department, as the Chief 
State of Madhya Pradesh 

Shri D . K . Jadhav was sponsored 
Electoral Officer for the 

with 

by the Indian National 
ettect from the 1st May , 1973 and until further orders rice 

Congress led by Shri J. Ram and the respondent obtained 
Shri L . B Sarje granted leave . 

support of Bhartiya Jan Sangh and contested the election 

on its symbol, The Lamp . Shri Narayan Singh Albela 
[No. 154 /MP / 731 

Was sponsored by Hindu Mahasabha and Shri Bundel Singh 

was an independent candidate . 
New Delhi, 23rd April, 1973 

3 . It is alleged by the petitioner that thc election of the 

respondent is void on account of corrupt piactices committed 
S . O . 1234 . In pursuance of section 106 of the Represen by the respondent, his election agent and by other persons 
tation of the People Act, 1951 , the Election Commission with the consent of the respondent or his election agent 
hereby publishes the order dated the 27th October, 1972 of and they are as follows : 
the High Court of Madhya Pradesh , Jabalpur , in Election 
Petition No. 5 of 1971 , 

(a ) That the respondent and / or his election agent had 

incurred and / or authorised expenses in connection 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH , 

with the election between the dates of publication 

of the notification calling the election , i. e. the 27th 
JABALPUR 

January, 1971 and the date of declaration of the 

result, i. e. the 11th day of March , 1971, exceeding 
Beforc Honourable Shri Justice Surajbhan Grover. 

the prescribed limit of expenses which is Rs. 35, 000 

as provided under - section 77 ( 3 ) of the Act read 
Election Petition No. 5 of 1971 

with Rulo 90 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 

1961, regarding the use of helicopter , by himself as 
Udhav Singh aged about 44 years son of Shri Diwan 

detailed in paragraph 10 ( I ) of the petition and 
Singh Raghuvanshi, Advocate , resident of Ashok 

hiring charges inclusive of fuel and all expenses 
nagar, tahşil Ashoknagar, District Guna .. .. .. Petitioner. 

which comes to not less than Rs. 60 , 000 . 
VERSUS 

( b ) That Shrimati Vijaya Raje Scindia , mother of the 

respondent, who lives jointly with him , visited 
Shri Madhav Rao Scindia aged about 26 yeurs , son of 

various places in connection with his clection as 
Lato H . H . Jiwaji Rao Scindia , resident of Jai Vilas 

detailed in paragraph 10 ( T ) ( 2 ) of the petition with 
Palacc , Jaiyondra Ganj, Gwalior- 1 , Tahsil and Dis 

his consent and the expenses incurred for thouse 
trict Gwalior, P . O . Laskur City .. . .........Respondent 

of helicopter comes to not less than Rs. 15 ,000 . 
Petition under Section 81 of the Representation of the People 

These two items make a total of Rs. 73 , 000 . 
Act , 1951 

4 It is alleged that the respondent has shown an axpendi 

ure of Rs. 5,000 in his clection return for the use of heli 
1 . Shii A . B . Mishra , 

copter as having been paid to Shri N . K . Shejwalkar , the 
2 , Shri P . L . Dubey , 

Treasurer, M . P . Jan Sangh and the receipt obtaincd for the 


.. . 68 ,800 


1696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[PART II 


- 


purpose is ficticious and it does not represent a true state of 
affairs. It is also said that this method was adopted by 
the respondent to save himself from the charge of corrupt 
practice provided under section 123 (6 ) of the Act, as the 
helicopters were, in fact , hired and procured by the respon 
dent and not by the Bhartiya Jan Sangh or Shri N . K . Shej 
walkar , and were in his exclusive control in the Jai Vilas 
Palace area at Gwalior. 


5 . The sccond -corrupt practice alleged against thc respon 
dent is that he used a large number of motor vehicles , in 
any case , not less than 18 which were hired and procured 
cither by himself or by his election agent, Shri Ranoji Rao 
Shinde , a resident of Gwalior , of by the consent of either 
of them and the expenses on this item would approximately 
amount to not less than Rs. 25 , 000 , whereas the expenses 
shown in the election return in this connection is only 
Rs. 9, 281. 57 P . The places and the dates on which these 
vehicles were used aic detailed in paragraph 10 ( 11) of the 
petition . The pctitioner amended his petition vide Court s 
Order dated 2 - 8 - 1972 and alleged that Shri Multanmal 
Şurana , Ex. M . L . A . of Ashoknagar, and Shri Shiv Pratap 
Singh M . L . A ., a candidate who withdrew from the election , 
acted as agents of the respondent during the election and that 
Shri Multanmal Surana was in charge of respondent s elec 
tion for Ashok Nagar Pargana while Shri Shiv Pratap Singh 
was in charge of Guna Pargana , and both of them had in 
curred expenses on hiring of motor vehicles , their fuel con 
sumption , maintenance and running under the authority and 
with the consent of the respondent and / or his election 
agent 


alleged against him , either by himself or by his election agent 
or with the consent of any one of them . The respondent, 
while denying the allegations , made in paragraphs 10 of the 
petition , as regards incurring of expenditure exceeding tho 
prescribed limit , has avcried that all the political parties 
opposed to the Indian National Congress led by Shri J . Ram 
had practically participated in the election foi reasons of 
their own quite independently of his election campaign . He 
emphasised that the Bhartiya Jan Sangh incurred cxpenses 
for its own purpose to propagate its own political ideology 
and policies and it was distinct from his persopal election 
campaign . He also avcıred that the workers of the Bhartiya 
Jan Sangh did not work for his election nor they worked 
as his agent. He also said that the House of Scindia as well 
as he himself had been very popular with the subjects of the 
erstwhile State of Gwalior and all the nine candidates , who 
contested the Parliamentary Lok Sabha mid -term election , 
and who had the support of the respondent and his mother , 
came out successful and not a single candidato lost the 
election . As the respondent had his own independent elec 
tion machinery for the election campaign , it did not involve 
any large expenditure in excess of the prescribed limit . 

9 . As regards hiring of the helicopters and payments made 
therefore , it is averred that the allegation pertaining to it is 
vague and lacing in material particulars and further more 
that the helicopters were neither hired nor procured by the 
respondent but he himself did accompany ono or thọ other 
leader of the Bhartiya Jan Sangh Party in - connection with 
the campaign of the Party within the State of Madhya 
Pradesh and other States as well. He also denied that the 
helicopters were either exclusively or mainly used in con 
nection with his election propaganda and whcrever he want, 
he want to propagate thc idcology and policies of the Jan 
Sangh Party . He also denied having visited the following 
places shown in paragraphs 10 of the petition on the dates 
noted against them : 


6 . The last allegation of corrupt practice alleged against 
the respondent is regarding undue influence under section 
123 ( 2 ) of the Act as detailed in paragiaph 10 ( III) (II ) of 
the petition and which is as follows : 


Dates 


Places 


(i ) That on 23rd of January , 1971, the respondent and 

his associates , Laxminarayan Gupta , M .LA , Sushil 
Vemma M . L . A ., Jagdish Ashana and Dhiraj Singh 
and others who were staying in the Dak Bungalow , 
Pichhore ( Shivpuri) threatened Laxman Shastri and 
a dozen of citizens of Pichhore to vote for the res 
pondent , when they had gone there to clarify the 
position regarding the promises made by the res 
pondent on previous occasions and were not ful 
filled . Similarly , it happened with Shri Ravi 
Shankar Dixit, Principal, Chhatrapal Degree College , 
Pichhore , on the same day . 


( ii) That in the midnight of 24th of February , 1971, 

the workers of the respondent of villago Sahodari 
forcibly entered the houses of Harijan voters , 
namely Kutariya, Nirpatiya and others and crimi 
nally intimidated them not to vote for the congress 
candidate , Shri D , K . Jadhav . 


10 - 2 - 1971 

Raghogarh 
16 - 2 - 1971 

Chanderi und Amola 
18 -2 - 1971 

Isagarh 
23-2 - 1971 

Guna and Chunderia 
26 - 2 - 1971 

Kumbhraj, Khonkar, Taka 
ncia , Hur-Ki-Mahoo , Kheri 

Khatta . 
28 -2 - 1971 

Pichhore (Shivpurl) . 
In brief, he denied having either hired or procured the heli 
copters and incurred the expenditure of Rs. 60 ,000 . He also 
denied that his mother travelled in a helicopter for his elec 
tion and, on the other hand , he has said that she want inde 
pendently for the propaganda of the Bhartiya Jan Sangh 
party . He admitted that the helicopters used to be kept in 
the premises of the Jai Vilas Palace for the convenicnce and 
at the request of the Bhartiya Jan Sangh Party and they 
were not in the exclusive control either of the respondent or 
his mother . He also denied that Rs. 15 ,000 were incurred 
as expenses by his mother in connection with his election 
as alleged in the petition and the Bhartiya Jan Sangh party 
had incurred the expenditure in the interest of the Party 
and not as an agent of the respondent nor with his consent 
or authority . 


( iii ) That on the date of poll, i.e . 1st of March , 1971, 

when about 100 Harijan Voters of Sirsi Pachhar 
had yone to cast their votes at police station Saluai, 
tahsil Ashoknagar, these Harijan Voters were cri 
minally intimidated with the consent of the respon 
dent not to vote for the congress candidate ; 


(iv ) That on or before 22 -2 - 1971, Mohan Prasad Ojha , 

A Congress worker of village Umri, tahsil Guna was 
threatened ut pistol point by the workers of the 
respondent or with his consent by Shri Shiv Pratap 
Singh and others of Umri not to vote and convass 
in favour of the Congress candidate ; 


( v ) 


That on 21- 2 - 1971, Khemchand Jain , a Congress 
candidate of village Pironth , tahsil Kolaras, was 
thrcatened and criminally intimidated by Rao Saheb 
Ram Singh and others , the workers of the respon 
dent with his consent with dire consequences if he 
voted for thç Congress candidate . 


10 . As regards the use of motor vehicles, he has uverred 
that this allegation lacks in material particulars and more 
over hiring of the vehicles and their use for his election as 
alleged in paragraph 10 ( II ) of the petition is untrue and 
whatever vehicles were used for his election , their expenses 
have been shown in his election return . He has also denied 
that either Multanmal Surana or Shiv Pratap Singh acted 
as his agent or they were authorised to hire any vehicle and 
purchase fuel for his election . On the other hand , he has 
said that they were working on behalf of the Jan Sangli 
Party . 


7 . The petitioner , thereforc , prayed to declare the election 
of the returned candidate Shri Madhav R .10 Scindia , to be 
void on account of the aforesaid corrupt practices alleged 
against him . 

8 . The respondent, by way of his written statement, denied 
the commission of any of the aforesaid corrupt practices 


11 . As regards the last allegation of undue influence , he 
has denied it totally alleging that the allegations made in this 
behalf are vague and suffer from material particulars . 


12 . The respondent filed an intculocutory application (No. 
58 of 1972 ) Jated 3- 8 -1972 saying that the petitioner, in 


1697 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ) 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY S , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 
-- - - - - - - - -- 

- 
- - - - - - 

. 
- - - 

- 
- 

- - - - 
- 

- 
paragraph 10 ( III ) 11 ( IV ) of his petition , has mude an alle motor vehicles were used for the plurpose of election of the 
gation of corrupt practice against Shri Shiy Pratap Singh , respondent as detailed therein and the amount spent there 
who withdrew his candidature after the scrutiny of his nomi fore would not be less than Rs. 25,000 which is not shown 
nation paper was held valid on 4 - 2 -1971, and , therefore , he in the clection return . In paragraph lí (equivalent to 
having not been joined as a party to the petition by reason Paragraph 10 (01) wrongly numbered ) it is further alleged 
of non -compliance with the provisions of section 82 ( b ) of that the workers of the respondent with his consent thrcatcned 
the Act, the petition should be dismissed under section 86 ( 1 ) the persons whose names and place in this paragraph of thc 
of the Act. The petitioner first expressed that he did not petition with dire consequences in case they voted for thc 
want to file a reply but ultimately hc filed one dated 28 - 8 - 1972 . rival candidate , Shri D . K . Jadhav and, therefore they were 

guilty of corrupt practice under 
He submitted in his reply that he has pleaded no corrupt 

section 123 ( 2 ) of the 
practice against Shri Shiv Pratap Singh in paragraph 11 (IV ) Act. 
of his pctition and according to him , this paragraph contains 
two instances of undue influence , one is against one Mohan 

16 . The respondent, in his written statement, as aforesald , 
Praşad Ojha , a Congress worker who was said to have been has denied the used of helicopters exclusively or mainly for 
threatened at pistol point with the consent of the respondent the purpose of his election and his reply is that these heli 
by his workers and the second instance was that Shri Shiv copters were hired by the Bhartiya Jan Sangh Party for 
Pratap Singh and others of Umri were threatened not to propagating essentially and mainly their policies and these 
votc and convass in favour of the Congress candidato , helicopters were used not only in Madhya Pradesh but in 
Shri D . K , Jadhav, und none of these two allegations are Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh also . He also said that 
within the mischief of section 123 ( 2 ) read with section 2 ( C ) Shrimati Vijiul Rajc Scindia did not work for this election at 
of the Act. It was, therefore , not necessary to join him us hiy instance and / or with his consent. He has , however , 
il party in this petition . 

admitted that the helicopters were kept in the premises of 

Jai Vilas Palace at Gwalior at the request of the Office 
13 . The respondent also liled another interlocutory uppli bearers of Bhartiya Jan Sangh to his mother for the con 
cation ( No . 76 of 1972 ) accompanied by a true copy of the venience of the Party . As regards hiring of motor vehicles 
petition said to have been received by the respondent, under is concerned , the reply of the respondent is that only thosc 
section 87 read with section 137 of the Act, saying that it vehicles were uscd which ſind inention in the return of his 
is noticed that there are crasures and initials at three places election expenses and the rest of the vehicles alleged to have 
in paragraph 11 ( iv ) of the petition , but even then it is clear been used in connection with the election of the respondent 
that this part clearly makes out that an allegation of corrupt were never hired by the l espondent nor with his conscnt 
practice was pleaded against Shri Shiv Pratap Singh , and , or the consent of his election agent and also not under the 
therefore , it was prayed that the petitioner be summoned for authority or any one of them . He has also denied the 
re -cross -examination on the point. The petitioner filed its allegation of corrupt practice of undue influence as alleged 
reply dated 12 - 9 - 1972 denying the allegation made by the by the petitioner, 
respondent, alleging that there are no erasures what-so - cver 
in the original petition and particularly so in paragraph 
11 ( iv ) of the petition . According to him , the three so - called 

17 . A corrupt practice of incurring excessive cxpenditure 
erasures are merely scorings by ink duly initialled by the 

is defined in section 123 (6 ) of the Act. According to sec 
petitioner at the time of filing the petition which is nor 

tion 77 of the Act, every candidate at an election shall , 
mally done to correct the typing errors. He also urged that 

either by himself or by his election agent, keop a separate 
no case for recalling the petitioner for purposes of re - cross 

and correct account of all expenditure in connection with 
examination is made out. 

the election incurred or authorised by him or by his elec 

tion agent between the date of publication of the notification 
14 . The following issues were framed on the pleadings of 

calling the election and tho date of declaration of the result 
the parties : 

thereof, both dates inclusive . The maximum amount of 
ISSUES 

clection expenditure , which may be incurred by a candidato 

for the parliamentary clection is laid down in Rule 90 of 
( 1 ) ( a ) Hus the respondent incurrcu or had authorised the Conduct of Election Rules , 1961, which is Rs. 35, 000 . It 

expenditure which was more than the prescribed is clear from Sec . 123 (6 ) and 77 of the Act that in order 
limit laid down under the Representation of the to be a corrupt practice , the excessive expenditure must be 
People Act, 1951, or the Rules made thereunder as 

incurred or authorized by the candidate or his election agent 
detailed in para 10 ( I ) and 10 ( II ) of the Petition ? in connection with an election . An expenditure incurred by 
(b ) Do the allegations made suffer from 

a third person , who is not authorised by the candidate or his 
lack of 

election agent is not a corrupt practice within the meaning 
material particulars ? 

of the Act. If any authority is needed for the proposition , 
(2 ) ( a ) Did the workers of the respondent with his con 

I may refer to Rananiaya Singh » . Baijnath Singh ( 1955 
sent thereaten the voters with injury , and crimi 

S . C . R . 671- A . I. R . 1954 S . C . 749 ) . Also see Ramduyal v . 
nally intimidated them in case they voted for 

Arijra ) Singh (AJR . 1970 S . C . 110 ) and Mubarak Murdoor 
D . K . Jadhav as detailed in paragraph 11 of the 

1 . Lal Bahadur [ 1958 ( 20 E . L . R . 176 ( All ) ] cited with approval 
petition , and if so , what is its effect? 

in Macrai Patodia v . R . K . Birla (AIR . 1971 S . C . 1295) 

along with Rananiaya Singh v . Baijnath Singh ( A . I. R . 1954 
(b ) Does this allegation suffer from lack of material S . C . 749 ) wherein it was held that expenditure incurred by 
particulars ? 

any other agent or person without anything more need not 

be included in the account of return as such incurring of 
(3 ) Is the petition time-barred ? 

cxpenditure would be purely voluntary (Para , 17 Page 1302 ) . 
(4 ) To what relief, if any, the petitioner is entitled to ? 

It is hardly necessary to say that irregularities in maintaining 

accounts of election expenses is not a corrupt practice . It 
15. Tysue No. 1 (a ) This issue is based on the allegations 

may be even falsc in material particulars and this will not 
made by the petitioner in paragraph 10 ( I ) of the petition . 

make any difforence . A corrupt practice as aforesaid is com 
Issue No. 2 ( a ) is based on paragraph 11, wrongly numbered 

mitted only when the prescribed limit is excecued . 
AS 10 ( III ) of the petition . It relates to expenses alleged to 
have been incurred by the respondent and his election agent 
in contravention of section 77 of the Act read with Rule 90 

18. It is well established as what standard of proof is re 
of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. It says that the 

quired to establish a corrupt practice . A corript practice 
respondent had used four helicopters from time to time in 

is akin to a criminal charge and it is for the election peti 
conncction with his election and the expenditurc incurred or 

tioner to prove corrupt practice pleaded by him and he has 
authorised by him and his election agent had not been in 

to dischargo the burden satisfactorily and the evidence re 
cluded the return of his election expenses, which should not 

quired by the petitioner in an election case to prove tho 
have been less than Rs. 60 ,000 inclusive of hiring charges , 

corrupt practice must be cogant end conclusive . In doing 
fuc) and all other expenses . It was also alleged that the 

so , he cannot depend on preponderance of probabilities and 
mother of the respondent, Shrimati Vijia Raje Scindia , had 

suspicion in such cases docs not matter . Their Lordships of 
also used the helicopter in connection with the election of 

the Supreme Court in Magraj Patodin s case ( supra ) in parn 
her son and the expenses incurred or 

graph 15 have observed as follows : 

authorised in this 
connection must not be less than Rs. 15 , 000 which do not 
find mention in the election return , Ex - P - 2 . It is also alleged 
in paragraph 10 ( II ) of the petition that not less than 18 

" In the present appcal we do not propose to go into the 
question whether the evidence adduced by a petitioner in 


-- - - - - 


- - - - 


- - 


-- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


1698 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[Part Il - - 
--- - - - - - - - - - - . 

- - - 
an election caşe should establish the case beyond any reason 

23 . The travel by a helicopter is not denied by the respon 
able doubt but suffice it to say that that evidence must be dent. He has stated in paragraph 6 of his statement that he 
cogent an conclusive. It is true that as observed in Dr. M . had travellod the whole area forming the old Madhya Bharat 
Chenna Reddy 1 . V . Ramchandra Rao , Civil Appeal No, 1149 and Bhopal regions and according to him , he took his jour 
of 1968, D / - 17 - 12 - 1968 (SC ) that a charge of corupt prac ney for the purpose of campaign on behalf of the Jap Sangh 
tice cannot be equated to a criminal charge in all respects , with the consultation of the Jan Sangh workers. 
While the accused in a criminal case can refuse to plead 
and decline to adduce evidence on his behalf and yet ask 24 . Yogender Sud (P .W . 2 ) has stated that on 27th 
the prosecution to prove its cusc beyond reasonable doubt February, 1971, 600 litres of aviation gasoline was supplied 
such is not the position in an election petition . But the to M / s Helicopter Services at Usha Kiran Hotel at Gwalior 
fact remains that burden of proving the commission of vide Ex - P - 107 and 5000 litres of aviation gasoline vide Ex 
corrupt practice pleaded is on the petitioner and he has to P - 108. Ho hay no personal knowledge about the transaction 
discharge that burden satisfactorily . In doing so he cannot nor Ex. P - 108 is in his handwriting. All that he has said is 
depend on preponderance of probabilities. Courts do not that he contacted Jaisingh who was in charge of Palace 
set at naught the apparent verdict of the electorate except Garage and collected some cmpty bartclş . It has no bearing 
on good grounds ." 

on the question involved . 
Their Lordships further observed in paragraph 32 ang 25. Wing Commander H . K . Patel ( P . W . 3 ) was the plan 
follows : 

ning manager of the Helicopter Services. He has depoxed 

that two helicopters were supplied to M / s . Cambata Avia 
" It is true that many times corrupt practices at election 

tion , Bombay in February and March, 1971 and their num 
may not be able to be established by direct evidence 

bers were VT-DKB and VT-DEN . The captain for the first 
and the commission of those corrupt practices may 

one was Wing Commander Kapoor and for the second one, 
have to be inferrect from the proved facts and 

Capt. Sampat. He has also filed the abstracts of journey log 
circumstances but the circumstances proved must book , Ex. P - 18 and Ex. P - 19, which show the journeys or 
reasonably cstablish that the alleged corrupt practice 

movements or any flight taken by the helicopters and he has 
way committed by the returned candidate or bis 

further stated that to the best of his lowledge . liis Com 
election agent . As mentioned carlier preponderance 

pany charged Rs. 1200 per hour from M / s. Cambata Aviation . 
of probabilities is not sufficient." 

As stated by him in paragraph 19 of his deposition , he is 

unable to say as to who made the payments for the bills of 
See also Dr. M . Chenna Reddy v . V . Ramchundra Rao 

the oficers who stayed in Usha Kiran Hotel 
7 . 968 Dobia s Election Cascs, 337 SC ; Jeju Singh v . Kurtail 
Sweh ( A . I. R . 1966 Supreme Court; 773 ) ind lurinath v . 26 . Chandra Sinha Sampat ( P . W . 4 ) , a pilot officer, is also 
N . R . Deshmukh 1966 ( 9 ) Dobia s Clection Cases , 45 % unable to guy as to who had borne the boarding and lodging 
SC ) ). 

expenses which were incurred in connection with his stay at 

the Usha Kiran Hotel, Gwalior. He has also no knowledge 
19 . Now the question arises as to whether the respondent as to who hired the helicopters and who made the pay 
or the Bhartiya Jan Sangh hired the helicopters alleged to ment. 
have been lived in the olcction in question and who paid the 
hire charges for the same. The next question that will arise 

27 , Captain M . S . Kapoor ( P . W . 5 ) also does not know 
for consideration would be that in CESC it is found that the what was the daily charges for the stay of the officers in 
Bhartiya Jan Sangh hired and paid the hire charges , whether 

charge of the helicopter VT-DKB and according ot him , the 
the helicopters were used for propagating the policies of Company made the arrangement for their stay. In paragraph 
the Bhartiya Jan Sangh and whether it acted as an agent 

11 of his statement , he has deposed that to the best of his 
of the respondent for making him successful at the clection 

knowledge , neither Rajmata nor the respondent had flown 

in the aforesaid helicopter . 
20 . The petitioner ay P . W . 37 , in paragraphs 15 and 16 
of his staternent has very clearly stated that 19 legards the 

28. The evidence of K . K . Deb ( P . W . 6 ) is also not usc 
hiring of helicopters and their use as well as payments made 

ful in this connection as he operated in Bhind area and not 
for the sume, he received information from Sucur Jadhav 

in Shivpuri and Guna area . 
and he had no personal knowledge about it . It is pertinent 
to note that Sardar Jadhav is not produced as a witness on 

29 . The statement of Hurbansh Singh (P . W . 7 ) is also not 
behalf of the petitioner. The Petitioner has also admitted useful to the petitioner . Ho is a managing partner in the 
thut hc made no enquiries about the hiring and payments 

Agsociated Automobilcs Gwalior. He has stated that M /s . 
made in this connection from any one else. The petitioner Sanghi Aviation , Indore and Delhi purchased 10 barrels of 
has examined in support of this corrupt practice Harbanshlal aviation fuel from the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd . on 22nd 
( P . W . 1 ) , Yogender Sud ( P . W . 2 ) , Wing Commander H . K . February , 1971 and the quantity of fuel was 2000 Kgs. and 
Patel ( P . W . 3 ) , Pilot Officers - - Chandra Sinha Sampat ( P . W . 4 ) , 

the payment was made vide Ex. P - 116 . He of course has 
Captain M . S Kapoor ( P . W . 5 ) , K . K . Dcb Pwy . 6 ) . 

said that he had written a letter for the return of empty 
S . S . Gill ( P . W . 9 ) - -who were in charge of the flights and 

barrels to the Chief Secretary to the respondent vide Ex . P - 121. 
Harbansh Singh ( P . W . 7 ) M . N . Khan ( P . W . 8 ) and Shri 

He has also stated that he arianged for the fuel as he was 
Ram Cambata ( P . W . 38 - examined on commission ) , 

approached by a representative of M / s. Sanghi Aviation , 

Indore and he received the payment from he representative , 
21. The respondent as R . W . 1 himself in paragraph 2 of 
his statemçnt has clearly stated that he did neither engage 

30 . M . N . Khan ( P . W . 8 ) was at the relevant time a 
any helicopter for the mid -term Lok Sabha clection nor did 

Depot Superintendent on behalf of the Indian Oil Corporation 
he enter into any agreement either with Sanghi Aviation , 

At Gwalior and he received 5000 litres of aviation oil vide 
Indoro Or Delhi or Cambata Aviation Private Limited, Ex. P - 108 . He is not in 
Bombay , for his election campaign . 

a position to tell as to who 
He, of course, has had placed the order for the fuel and who 
admitted in paragraph 4 of his deposition that on the re 

paid 

for the same. He also deposed that the 
quest made by Shri Shejwalkar, the theni 

fuel 
treasurer of the 

in question was being taken by the representative of thç heli 
M . P . Jan Sangh , he had initiated the talk with Shri Sam 

copters at Gwalior but he did not remember whether thosc 
Cumbata ( P . W . 38 ) for the purpose of hiring of the helicop . 

representatives were those of Şanghi Aviation Indore or 
ters by the Jan Sangh . The respondent has also examined 

Cambata Private Ltd . Bombay. His evidence does not in 
R . C . Khandelwal ( R . W . 2 ) and Homi E . Bhakka ( Bakka ) 

any way cannect the respondent either with the purchase of 
(RW , 3 ) . 

fuel for the use of the helicopters in question o1 in making 

the payment for the same. 
27 . Harbanshlal ( P . W . 1 ) was in charge of the flying con 
trol Aerodrome, Maharajpura , at the relevant time and he 31. The evidence of S . S . Gill ( P . W . 9 ) is also of no con 
hus proved the entrics in the Air Traffic Control Log book , 

Nequence as regards either for the hiring or making payment 
Ex . X P - 26 to Ex . P -66 , made by either Shri Joseph or him 
self which show the flights of the four helicopters in ques 

for the use of helicopters. 
lion . He has deposed but necessary information received 32 . Now , only remains the cvidence of Shri Sai Cambata 
from the palace on telephone was recorded by him as well ( P . W . 38 ) who is the Director of M / s. Cambata Aviation 
ay Shii Joseph and it was passed to the concerned area con Privalc Limited , Bombay . He has deposed that he had an 
Trol. These are marked as Ex . s P - 70 to P - 105. 

initial talk with the respondent regarding the supply of 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973/ VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1699 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 

--- -- - - - - - - - 

- - -- - - 

- - - - 
helicopters for election work and he was told that the res 

34. Shri Nahata , learned counsel for tho petitioner, has 
pondent and his mother , who were being sponsored by the vehemently criticised the cvidence of R . C . Khundelwal ( R . W . 
Jan Sangh Party, would contest the election . In paragraph 2 ) on the ground that the entries made in tho cash book 
13 of his statement, be has deposed that Wing Commander and the ledger should not be rclicd on as some pages in the 
Hoshali, who unfortunately died on 24th of May, 1971, cash book are linnumbered and there are some erasures la 
finalised the negotiations but there is no written record with some pages and some pages have been added afterwards and 
the Company. Wing Commander Hoshali was then the further more , the receipt for the amount received was given 
Commercial Manager of thọ Company and it was one of his on an ordinary paper and not on the numbered printed rc 
functions to finalise the contract. He has also deposed that ceipt of the Company. He also urged that the accounts are 
thu operation of the helicopters was for Madhya Pradesh and not kept irregular course of the business with the result that 
Rajasthan and he is no sure whether any of the helicopters R . C . Khandelwal is not a reliable witness and these entries 
operated in Utter Pradesh . In paragraph 16 of his state were made to help the respondent in his election after the 
ment, he has deposed that apart from the initial talk with election was over . 
the respondent, he had no personal knowledge of the subso 
quent nogotiations and he also testified that the payment 

35. Shri K . A . Chitley , learned counsel on the other side , 
was made at Gwalior and the details of payments were know 

has contended that the agreement in quostion was entered 
to Shri R . S . Cambata and the accounts “ department of 

into with Shri Shejwalkar at Gwalior which bears the signa 
his Company The evidence of Shri Cambuta ( P . W . 38 ) 

tures of both of them . R . C . Khandelwal ( R . W . 2 ) is an 
does not in any way connect the respondent with cither 

independent witness and when he gave the statement he was 
hiring of the helicopters or in making the payments for the 

not in the services of M / s. Sanghi Brothers ( Indore ) Private 
same. On the other hand , the statements of R . C . Khandel 

Ltd ., but he was on his way to join as Finuncial Director 
wal ( R . W . 2 and Bakka ( R . W . 3 ) clearly show that the 

with Khandelwal and Herrman Electronics Private Limited , 
helicopters in question were hired by the Jan Sangh Party 
and the payment also was made by the Party , R . C . Khan 

Bombay and his oral evidence finds support in the entries 
delwal ( R . W . 2 ) was at the relevant time working as a 

made in the cash book as well as the ledger with the result 
Secretary for M / s Şanghi Brothers, Indore, Private Ltd . 

that ho is a reliable witness . 
in the year 1971. Sanghi Aviation is a division of the said 
Company which had helicopters in 1971. He has doposed 

36 . I have given my careful thought to the contention 
that he entered into an agreement with Madhya Pradesh 

raised before mo by Shri Nahuta and in my view , there is 
Jan Sangh vide Ex. R - 18 which is on record of Ex. P -No. 4 

nothing to discredit the statemeut made by R . C . Khandelwal 
of 1971 and its truio copy is marked in this caso as Ex . R - 23 . 

( R . W . 2 ) as he has been cross -examined at length and he 
According to him , the original agreement was signed by 

has fully met the objections raised by him as regards the 
Shri Shejwalkar as well as by him in the presence of each 

issuance of the receipt for the fimount received by him not 
other at Gwalior. He has also deposed that Shri Shejwalkar 

on 2 printed receipt in paragraph 25 of his 
gave an advance of Rs. 40 ,000 in cash in this behalf and stutement by saying that if he had taken the 
he passed a receipt Ex. P -24 , the original of which is Ex, P 

receipt book from the Head office. it would not 
20 filed in Election Petition No, 4 of 1971, and It bears his 

have been possible for the Accountant to issue receipts in 
signature . He has also deposed that he recolved the balance 

the office as he had to issue 20 to 25 receipts daily . Ho has 
of Rs. 51 , 375 at Bhopal by a chequo from some one at the 

also absolutely denied tho suggestion that Ex . R - 18 and Ex. 
Jan Sangh Office and the original receipt Ex. R - 22 is filed in 

R - 19 in E . P . No. 4 of 1971 and the duplicate receipt marked 
Election Petition No. 4 of 1971 and its truc copy is Ex . R -25 

Ex. P - 289 in this case were made after the election petition 
in this case . The original receipt bears the seal of Sanghi 

was filed and he has also explained as to how the word 
Brothers and it bears the proper stamps. He has further 

Indore in the duplicate copy, Ex. P - 291, was not typed while 
stated that both the payments were made to him and they 

it exhistod in the original vide his statement in paragraph 31 
are shown in the cash book for the year 1970 -71. At page of his deposition. It is worthy of noto that Sanghi Brothers 
485 of the account book , there is an entry for the payment 

( Indore ) Private Ltd , having whatsoover no business con 
of Rs. 40 ,000 in cash and it is dated 12 - 2 - 1971. The original nection with the respondout why they would go to such a 
account book was marked Ex. R - 26 and its true copy is length to obligc him by making falso entries in the account 
also marked in this canC as Ex . R - 26 . He proves that the books cither at Indore or Delbi, There ls no material whatsoever 
entry in question is in the handwriting of Deshraj Duwa who to discredit the statemont mado by R . C . Khandelwal ( R . W . 
was the accountant of the Company at the relevant time and 2 ) and I find him a reliable witness and the criticism levelled 
he has identified his signatures. He has further deposed that against his testimony is without any substance . 
the payment of Rs. 51 , 375 finds place in the cash book of 
Delhi office on 4th of November , 1971. This entry is in 

37 . Homi E . Bhakka (Bakka ) ( R . W . 3 ) was at tho rele 
tho handwriting of Seth , an account of the Delhi office , 

vant time working with Cambata Aviation Private Limited 
The original entry is marked Ex . R - 27 in E . P . No. 4 of 

as an account and he has deposed that the Bhartiya Jan 
1971 and its truc copy is also marked in this case as Ex. R 

Sangh bad made the payments to his Company for hiring 
27. There is further corroborating cvidence that both the 

the helicopters in 1971 . According to him , Ex . R - I- C which 
payments are entered in the ledgers for the year 1970 - 71 and 

is Ex. R - 31 in E . P . No, 4 of 1971 indicates the payment of 
1971- 72, Thesc entries are marked as Ex. R - 28 and Ex. R 

Rs. 1 ,40 ,000 by the Bhartiya Jan Sangh by a demand draft 
29, respectively . He also testified that the entry Ex. R - 29 is 

drawn on the Central Bank of India and Rs. 200 was paid 
in the handwriting of Seth . He has also deposed that these 

in cash . This entry is in the handwriting oč one G . G . Mistry 
books wero kept in the regular course of business and they 

who was his assistant accountant at that time and he has 
are audited by the chartered accountant and this toal amount 

identified his handwriting. The corresponding ledger entry 
of Rs. 91. 37 % finds place in the balance sheet for the year 

is reficcted in tho Sundry Crcditors and Customers Ledger 
1970 -71 which is marked as Ex, R - 30 . 

for the year 1970 - 71 at page 113 of the said register. This 
cntry is marked as Ex . R - 2 - C which was already Darked as 

R 32 in E . P . No. 4 of 1971. This entry is also in the hand 
30 . In paragraph 9 of his statement, he has clearly stated 

writing of 6 , G . Mistry which he has identified . 
that Sanghi Brothers (Indore ) Privato Ltd . has no business 
relationship with the respondent and this is what the respond 

38 . The second and the balance payment made by the 
dent himself has also said in his deposition . He has also , 

Bhartiya Jan Sangh is shown in the receipt side in the cash 
in paragraph 10 , made it clear that he had no negotiations 

book of Cambata Aviation Private Limited for the year 
whatsoever regarding the contract in question with the res 

1971 -72 on 30 - 4 - 1971 at page 7 of the said register . This entry 
pondent and he has gone to such a length to say that he may 

shows the payment of Rs. 2 , 16 , 000 by a cheque drawn 
not even be able to recognise him . In paragraph 12 of his 

on the Central Bank of India . The cheque was discounted 
statement, he has also made further clear that he had no 

with the Union Bank of India , Bombay and an amount of 
negotiations as regards the hiring of the helicopters with 

Rs. 2 , 15 , 568 was credited to the account of M / s. Cambata 
anybody else except with Shri Shejwelkar and in paragraph 

Aviation Private Limited and the difference of the bank 
13 he has made it clear that the correction in Ex, R - 18 filed 

charges came to Rs. 432 . This entry in the cash book is 
in Election petition No. 4 of 1971 at portion A to Awas 

in his own handwriting and is Ex. R - 3 - C , which was Ex. R 
made while changing the word President to the " Treasurer " 

33 in E . P , No . 4 of 1971, The corresponding ledger entry 
in his own handwriting at the time when the agreement was 

is reflected in the Sundry Creditors and Customers Ledger for 
executed and its truo copy is marked Ex . R - 23 in this peti 

the year 1971- 72 which is marked as Ex. R - 4 - C cquivalent 


tion . 


- - 


- - 


1700 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II- - 
= - - -- - 

- - - - --- - - - - - - 
to Ex. R - 34 in E . P No . 4 of 1971. This entry in the lodger Avtar Singh ( P . W . 14 ) , Mujib -ul-Rahman ( P . W . 15 ) , Hui 
is also in the hand writing ol G . G . Mistry , He has also bhajan Singh ( P . W . 16 ) , Dig Vijay Singh ( P . W . 19 ) , 
deposed that these account books are maintained in the Abdul Khan ( P . W . 20 ) , Meharbansingh ( P . W . 21 ) , Shanti 
Ordinary course or business and the account books for the lal Jain ( P . W . 23 ) , Tarajan ( P . W . 25 ) , Virendra Singh 
years 1970 -71 have been audited and for the year 1971 - 72 ( P . W . 25 ) and Santkumar ( P . W . 28 ) to prove the speeches 
were under the process of auditing when they were produced made by the rcspondent in connection with his election and 
betore the Court in Election Petition No. 4 of 1971, In the respondent, in rebuttal, has examined himself as R . W . 1. 
paragraph 7 of his statement, he has testified that Wing Com 
mander Hoshali was the Coininercial Manager of M / s . 
Cambata Aviation Private Limited and Ex . R - 28 and Ex . R 

42 . The petitioner as P . W , 37 , in paragraph 5 of his 
29 in E . P . No. 4 of 1971, the true copies of which were 

statement has said that the Jan Sangh workers did not work 
marked by the Commissioner us Ex, R - 5 - C and Ex . R -6 - C , 

for the respondent in his constituency for his election and 
respectively bear the signature of Hoshali . He has deposed 

the helicopters were not used for the purpose of propagation 
that he was acquainted with the signature of Wing Com 

of the political ideologies of the Jan Sangh but it was for 
mander Hoshali and both the receipts were sigred by him 

the election of the respondent. In paragraph 9 of his state 
and they are on the letter -head of M / s. Cambata Aviation 

ment, he has further deposed that he had kept no note re 
Private Limited . Ex. R - 5 - C is a receipt issued for the pay 

garding the visit of Rajmata and the respondent of Ashok 
ment received by the said firm from Bhartiya Jan Sangh 

nagar and the speeches made by each one of them . He also 
which relates to the cash book entry in Ex . R - 1 - C and the 

did not ask any one to give him the gist of the speeches 
ledger entry in Ex. R - 2 - C . Siularly , Ex . R -6 - C relates to 

made by each one of them nor did any one give him any 
cash book entry Ex. R - 3 - C and the ledger entry Ex . R -4 - C . 

such gist. In paragraph 11 of his statement, he has admitted 
He has also stated that the chequo, demand draft, and the 

that he worked for Sardar Jadhav, a rival Congress candi 
cash of Rs. 200 were handed over to him by the then Ma 

date and he did inform him abuut the corrupt practice said 
naging Director , Shri R . S . Cambata for being deposited in 

to have been committed by the respondent but for reasons 
the Bank . 

best known to him , Sardar Jadhav was not produced as a 
Witness, It is pertinent to note that the petitioner is an active 

Congressman . He was interested in the election of the rival 
39 . Shri Nabata , learned counsel for the petitioner, has candidate , Sardar ſadhay and his evidence han, therefore , to 
also criticised the evidence of H . E . Bakhil and urged that be scrutinised carefully . 
it should not be accepted as reliable as no written agreement 
was filed on record to prove that it was entered into by Wing 
Commander Hoshali with Jan Sangh . He also further urged 43 . The petitioner has heard no speech made either by the 
that Bakka produced only the neceipt side of the cash book respondent or his mother. So as regards the speeches said 
and not the expenditure side and according to him , the cash to be made by the respondent, he has no personal knowledge . 
book appears to be a newly prepared one with a view to His own witness , Captain Sampat ( P . W . 4 ) , who was flying 
meet the case of the respondent and it is a fabricated one. the helicopter VT -DEN , which was the only helicopter used 
H . E . Bakka ( R . W . 3 ) has been cross -examined at great by the respondent mainly in his constituency , has deposed 
length and it will suffice to say that whatsoever objection in paragraph 12 of his statement that he always carried two 
Shri Nahata had made was fully mct in the reply glven by passengers in his each fight when on campaign , as detailed 
him in his cross -examination . In reply to the question put in Ex. P - 17 , and there was an emblem of Deopak put out 
to him in paragraph 14 , he has stated as follows: - - 

side his helicopter . In paragraph 13 , he has said that at 

99 places out of 100 , where he had landed , there used to be 
" Question : Why the amounts due from Jan Sangh bave riot a saffron flag of Jan Şangh waiving at the place of landing, 

been reflected in the ledger for 1970 -71 when He also stated that he used to be given a day previous to 
the account books have been auditod ? 

the flight a programme of the places to be landed . He has 

also said that whenever he fiew , a programme for flying was 
Answer : The amounts which have been received from given by the Ex . Maharaja And sometimes he was called by 
Bhartiya Jan Sangh have been credited to their 

the Ex. Maharaja and the whole programme used to be 
account. The debits to be raised to their discussed with the Jan Sangh leaders and when he gave 
account have not been done so . The audit for big fipal Approval for the feasibility for the fligh : , it used to 
the year 1970 -71 is carried on . The entries be finalised and then the programme used to be given to 
pertaining to the cash books ( receipts and pay 

him . He has also deposed that the programme was to be 
ments ) have been audited . Cetrain other journal 

finalised sometimes by the respondent with the previous con 
entries which have July to be passed before the 

qultation of the Jan Sangh members and sometimes the con 
audit can be said to be completo had not been 

sultation took place in his presence . In paragraph 15 , he 
donc when I left." 

has also said that once Shri Ramnath Goenka accompanied 
the respondent and at another tuine, there was one Scheduled 

caste candidate around the Ujjain area . On 21st February , 
H , F , Bakka ( R . W . 3 ) at the time bad made the state 1971, Ramnath Goenka accompanied the Ex -Maharaja from 
ment was not in the service of W / y . Cambata Aviation Pri Mungawali to Abdulla Ganj and Rajmata had never flown in 
vate Ltd . but was serving with Messrs . M . S . Cusder and his helicopter. As regards the speeches , made hy the res 
Company Private Limited and in his cross- examination , he pondent, he has deposed in paragraph 16 as follows: 
has fully explained as to why some of the pages of the cash 
book were not numbered . His evidence too is worthy of 

" Sometimes I had heard the speeches made by the Ex 
credence and the criticism levelled against hiin by Shri 

Maharaja Gwalior . It is correct to say that he 
Nahata is not of any conscquence . 

advocated for the general policies of the Jan Sangh . 

He also criticised the Congress Government policies . 
40. It is notworthy that it was for the petitioner is prove 

It is correct to say that people gave him great reve 
that the helicopters were , in fact, hired by the respondent 

rence . I cannot say whether the Ex -Maharaja at 

any time in his speech asked the people to vote for 
and the payment was also made by him but the petitioner 

himself." 
neither made aay efforts to make an enquiry in this connec 
tion nor he has examined Sardar Jadhav to prove this fact, 
who was his source of information. On the other hand, the 

In paragraph 19 of his statement, to the court question , 
respondent not only has denied the allegation made against 

he has made it clear that he is definite that the respondent 
him in this behalf orally but has also produced two witnesses , 

had never flown alone during the election campaign . 
R . C . Khandelwal ( R . W . 2 ) and H . E . Bakka ( R . W . 3 ) 
along with the documentary evidence which I find reliable . 

44 . Captain Kapoor ( P . W . 5 ) was in charge of helicopter 
I, therefore , comę to the conclusion that the helicopters 

VT -DXB and he has stated that he did not fly in the Guna 
were hired by the Madhya Pradesh Jan Sangh and the pay 

area. In Paragraph 12 of his statement he has deposed that 
ments regarding hire charges were made by it as aforcsaid . 

on 27- 2 - 1971, there is a mention in his log book , Ex. P - 16 

(Aed in E . P . No. 4 /71 ) that paniphlets wero dropped locally 
41. The next question that arises for decision in this con and it is correct, though they were of Jan Sangh . In para 
nection is whether the Jan Sangh hired these helicopters for graph 13, he has also testified that there were always two 
the use of the Party propaganda and propagation of their passengers with him and those were of Jan Sangh . Shri Atal 
policies or primarily or principally for the promotion of the Bihari Bajpai had also flown with him and at most of the 
interest of the returned candidata . The petitioner ( P . W . 37 ) places , he had landed , he found yellow flag waiving and the 
in addition to himsell han examined Dhanjiram constable area for the land was carmarked with vellow flac and 
( P . W . 12 ) , Kailash Chandra Sharma ( P . W . 13 ) , Sardar Deepak symbol. 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1701 


45. Captain K . K . Deb ( P . W . 6 ) , a pilot officer in the 
service of Messrs. Sanghi Aviation , Delhi, has deposed that 
he did not operate in Shivpuri and Guna region and 
in paragraph 13 , he has also similarly said that two person 
had always flown with him and they were also introduced to 
him as Jan Sangh leaders, 


He also critisised the Congress and looking to the cross 
examination in paragraph 4 , his evidence also suficrs from 
the same infirmity that hc did not inform the petitioner that 
lic had heard the respondent s speech as deposed to by 
him in his statement, although he had occasion to meet him . 


46 : S . S . Gill ( P . W . 9 ) , another pilot officer in charge of 
helicopter VT-DTW , had flown to different places " vide 
Journey Log Book , Ex. P - 129 and Ex. P - 130 (filed in Elec 
tion Petition No. 4 of 1971) copy of which is Ex . P - 129 
and Ex . P - 130 in this case which he has proved . He has 
also deposed that Ramnath Goenka , Ex -Maharaja of Nar 
singh Garh , Shri Atal Bihari Bajpai, Hukumchand Kachh 
waha had travelled with him and he also always carried two 
passengers in his flight and the passengers flying intro 
duced to him as members of the Jan Sangh . In paragraph 
10 of his statement, he has deposed as follows : 


51. The statement of Mujib -ul-Rahman ( P . W . 15 ) also 
suffers from the same infirmity AS deposed to by him in 
paragraph 7 of his statement that he had no talk with the 
petitioner regarding the mid -term Lok Sabhu election . It is 
rcally surprising, how he came to appear as his witness. More 
over, in paragraph 9 , he admits that he is an illitcrate person 
and does not remember the date of arrival of the respon 
dent nor the month , 


" I always carried in the Aight two passengers. The 

persons travelling were introduced to me because 
It is a general practice. They were introduced as 
Jan Sangh leaders. I was asked by my Company 
to fly to Bhopal and when I landed at Indore for 
fuel, one person accompanied me and he told mo 
that he was from Jan Sangh . I do not remember 
his name. When I landed a bit late at Indore , I 
was told by the Acrodrome Officor that there was 
an enquiry from Jan Office at Indore . When 
I landed at Bhopal, I met about 8 or 10 persons at 
the acrodrome. I was introduced with Sardar 
Angro there and the other persons were with saffron 
caps and party badges of Deepak.” 


52 . Harbhajan Singh ( P . W . 16 ) in paragraph 2 has stated 
that the respondent had addressed an audiance consisting 
of about 100 persons by saying that his ancestors had 
served the public and they should vote for him . He is also 
an active worker of the Congress and supported the rival 
candidate and his evidence also requires proper scrutiny. In 
paragraph 6 of his statement, he has admitted that he did 
not hear the respondent saying the audience to remove the 
Congress and to form the Government of Jan Sangh because 
of the noise in the crowd and if it is so , then it is difficult 
to say as to what the respondent had said , whether he could 
and did understand cven the gist of the speech said to have 
been made by the respondent. 


53 . Dig Vijay Singh ( P . W . 19 ) , appears to be a reliablo 
witness . He is an Ex -Raja of Rughogarh , a Jagir , in tho 
erstwhile State of Gwalior and according to him , h¢ was 
very close to the Gwalior house . In paragraph 2 of his 
statement, he has deposed as follows: — What Respondent 
had said in a mccting in his presence : 


In paragraph 11 , he has again said that he doos not know 
who prepared the plan for flying but the person who gave the 
plan to him was from Jan Sangh party , 


47. These pilot officers are the witnesses produced by the 
petitioner himself and they are independent witnesses and 
thero is no reason to disbelieve any one of them and I find 
that whatever they have stated is reliable . 


" I am contesting the election for the first time and that 

the Congress Government was corrupt at the 
Centre , and thcrefore , we should form our group 
of our owo Government and this is why I should 
be voted for. " In my speech , I said , " Looking to 
oul close relations with the Gwalior house and that 
the respondent was contesting the clection for the 
first time, therefore , we should vote for him " . I 
did not belong to any political party in the year 
1971 February . " 


48 . Dhanjiram constable ( P , W . 12 ) has stated that the 
respondent accompanicd by his wife had gone by a helicop 
ter at 6 P . M , to Dongeshwar and addressed an audiance say 
ing that he was standing for the election and they should 
vote the person to whom they may consider fit. He did 
not make a note of the specch . He also did not make a re 
port at the police station though he was on duty on that date . 
His evidenco otherwise is of no consequence , 


49. Kailash Chandra Sharma ( P . W . 13 ) is an Advocate 
and an interested witnesses as he had worked for the election 
in question for the rival candidate . In paragraph 9 of his 
statement, ho has stated abouļ the speeches made by the 
Rajmata and the respondent. According to him , Rajmata 
addressed for about two and a half hour while the speech 
of the respondent lasted for about an hour. It is ridiculous 
to believe that both the mother and the son would only say , 
if he was at all present in any of the mcetings, that their 
ancestors had served them well and they should vote for the 
respondent. His evidence is of no consequence simply on the 
ground as stated by him in paragraph 7 that ho had no talk 
with the petitioner during the inid -term Lok Sabha election 
of 1971, add that he had also no talk with him regarding 
the election petition and thut he only came to the Court 
in obedience of the summons served on him . It is surprising 
that how he came to give evidence to this effect. In para 
graph 15, to a court question , he has admitted that speeches 
made by both of them must have been published in the 
local papers, Dainik Bhaskar , published from Gwalior and 
it gave the gist of the speeches made by them and it was 
alınost a reproduction of their spceches but it is surprising 
that the petitioner has not been able to produce the best 
evidence on record . 


In paragraph 5 he has said that he had visited with the 
respondent different places and in paragraph 6 he has further 
sald that it was true that in the erstwhile State of Gwalior , 
all the candidates set up for the Lok Sabha as well as 
Vidhan Sabha elections by the respondent and his mother 
Wero practically all successful and the same thing has been 
stated in paragraph 7 of his statement. In paragraph 10 , ho 
has further said that whenever Rajmata and the respondent 
had adressed the mecting, it attracted a large crowd and 
there were large number of Jan Şangh flags and the local 
Jan Sangh leaders also lised to be present and they also 
used to address the meetings. So far as he knew , the rest 
pondent is a strong supporter of Jan Sangh . His evidence 
belies the evidence of the aforesaid witness who hayo 
only deposed thaat no Jan Sangh workers was present at the 
meeting and no Jan Sangh flags were displayed there and 
also that the respondent did not say anything about the Jan 
Sangh . In paragraph 11 , he has made it clear that when 
ever he had accompanied the respondent , he criticised the 
Congress and supported the Jan Sangh. Although after the 
mid term Lok Sabha Election , he has joined the Congress 
party , his statement as a whole appears to be reliable . 


54 . Statement of Abdul Khan ( P . W . 20 ) is believed by the state 
ment of Shri Dig Vijay Singh ( P . W . 19 ) , Ex -Rao Raja of 
Raghogarh and according to him , the Ex -Rao Raja was 
present in the meeting about which he had made the state 
ment. 


50 . Sardar Avtar Singh ( P . W . 14 ) , who was also work 
ing for the rival candidate , has deposed in paragraph 2 of his 
statement that the respondent had said in his spcech to vote 
for him as his ancestors had done good work for them . 
11 G of 1 /73 – 2 


55 . Meharbansingh ( P . W . 21) has also stated the same 
thing that the respondent came to Guna in the third week of 
February , 1971 and made a speech criticising the Congress 
and praised the work done by his ancestors and this is what 
the Rajmata had said when she came to Guna in the first 
week of February , 1971. In paragraph 6 of his statement, 
he has deposcd that he had told tho petitioner regarding the 


1702 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II-- - 
= = = - 
meetings he had attended of his own accord and no enquiry In cross -examination , in paragraph 73 , he has further 
to this effect was made by him . He has also further said stated as follows: -- 
that he had no knowledge that the potitioner wanted to fille 
an election petition . It appearas un - natural and his evidence 

" The particulars of tho Jan Sangh ideology which I 
does not inspire confidence . It is pertinent to note that 

was propogating at that time is as follows : 
there was a local paper Vir Abhimanyu published from 

(i) Ceiling and tho floor for agriculture holdings 
Guna as stated by him to a Court question in paragraph 
9 . He also said that he remembers to have read in the 

( II) Encouragement for Small Scalc and Medium 
Dainik Bhaskar as well as in Hamari Awaz the gist of the 

Scale Industries , 
speeches made by them and it appears to bo 
natural. Even so , there seems no reasons why the copies 

( iil) De-licensing of Industries. 
of these daily papers were not produced in Court which 
would have been the best evidenco to give the gist of the 

(Iv ) Cutting down the foreign aid , 
speeches said to have been made by the respondent and 

(v ) No strings attached to foreign aids, 
his mother . In the circumstances, his evidence does not 
inspire confidence . 

(vi) Yudging foreign policies on merits and not as 

a member of any foreign culture heritage and taking 
56 . Shantilal Jain ( P . W . 23 ) in paragraph 2 of his state 

( vii ) Revival of our Indian culture heritage and taking 
ment has deposed ag follows : 

pride in it , and others ." 
“ The respondent had said , There were closed relations 

61. Now , the question arises as to when a political party 
between the Raj Family and the public . Congress 

le said to be acting as an agent of the candidate for the 
has done great harm to you. My mother has com 

election campaign . 
mended me to stand for the election for your ser 
vicc from this constituency . I am sure that you 
pcople would vote for me, and for that purpose he 

62. Shri Nahta , learned counsel for the petitioner, has 
exhorted the audiance to raise their hands and very strenously argued whilo inviting my attention to Et , 
majority of the person thus raised their hands" , P - 9 , Ex . P - 10 , Ex. P - 14 , Ex . P - 15 and Ex . P / 2 / 10 in Ex. 

P - 2 that tho respondent used helicopters VT-DEN sixty hours 

in Guna constituency out of the 90 hours it had flown and 
He has admitted in paragraph 9 of his statement that he 

taking into account the speeches said to be made by him , he 
had submitted to Ratanlal Lohati, who was then the Congress 

was propagating for his own cause and not for the ideology 
President of the District Congress Committee , Guna , a 

or policy of the Jan Sangh as alleged by him . He also in 
report regarding the visit of the respondent and the meeting 

vited my attention to Ex. P -67 and Ex. P - 69 that the pro 
held by him and the total number of persons who had 

gramme for the flight WAS given by the Chief Secretary of 
gathered there . This report should have been the best evi 

the respondent and he further urged that even if the payment 
dence for the purpose but for an interested witness as he is, 

for the use of the helicopter was made by the Jan Sangh , 
it looks that he has not made a truthful statement and the 

which is not very material, and as the respondent had can 
petitioner did not produce the best evidence which could 

vassed for himself, tho hirc charges spent for the use of the 
have been available to him for the purpose . 

helicopters should be deemed to have been incurred by the 

respondent. He also further urged that Rs. 5, 000 / - paid vide 
57 . The statement of Tarachand (P . W . 24 ) is also of no voucher No. 155 to Shri Shejwalkar and said to be paid for 
consequence . He has stated that the respondent addressed the notional benefit derived by the respondent is a mande 
the meeting on 4th Februarv , 1971 wbich he could not have uvro to curtail his expenses which he spent for his clection . 
done so as the election campaign was not allow He also invited my attention to the fact that there is a varl 
ed on that day and according to him , the Sub ance between the pleadings of the respondent and his state 
Inspector of police and other police officers were also present ment he had made in this connection as R . W . 1 . 
and it is really surprising that no report to this effect was 
made . Flis evidence appears to be a tutored one and no 

63. Shri Chitley , learned counsel on the other hand has 
reliance can be placed on it. 

urged that the mid - term pool was held in 1971 for the gene 
ral parliamentary election and the respondent was very 

popular in the carstwhile Ştate of Gwalior , therefore , the 
58 . Vírendra Singh (P . W . 23) has deposed that Rajmata 

Jan Sangh party wanted to take full advantage of his popu 
had come alone by a helicopter in tho first week of Febru 

larity with the result that the helicopters were made avail 
ary , 1971, to his village Badora and addressed a moeting 
saying that in their rule , people wore happy and thus ro 

able to the respondent to make him more mobile for ine 

purpose of propagating the ideologies and policics of the 
qucsted the public to vote for her son who contesting the 

Jan Sangh and this is what the respondent has said in his 
election . His evidence is also of the same type and more 

writton statement. He also stressed that according to the elec 
over, there is no material to show that whatever she did , 

tion law , there is no restriction placed on the expenses to 
at all with the consent of the respondent or his election agent. 

be incurred by a political party for carrying on the pro 

poganda rclating 
59 . Santkumar ( P . W . 28 ) in paragraph 4 of his statement 

pugunga rciating to the principles and the policies for which 

the Party stands and it cannot be regarded as expenses In 
has only stated that in 1971 election , Jan Sangh candidates curred for and on behalf of the candidate. He also argued 
were successful because of the influence of the respondent that the question of agency will not arise unless a request 
and it is correct to say that the house of scindiag was very is made cither by the candidate or his election agent to 
popular in his region . Even the petitioner has admitted this advance the interest of the candidato mainly and this has 
in paragraph 20 of his statement. 

not been proved by the petitioner . He has also referred to 

page 73 of Parker s Conduct of Parliamentary Elections 
60. The respondentas R . W , 1 ., in paragraph 9 of his 

and stressed that what is required to be considered in such 

cases is tho intention or the motive of a 
statement has stated as follows: 

person and it is 
required to be seen what was the dominant motivo . He also 

referred to Helsburry s Laws of 
" The pattern of my speeches was practically the 

England ( Third edition , 
same volume 14 at pages 177 - 179 . He has also cited in support 
throughout the area I had covered including my of his contention rulings reported in R . y . Tronoh Mines 
constituency and that I was talking about the cor I td . (1952 All E . R . 697 ) , Mast Ram Harnam Singh Sethi 
ruption in the Congress and about the mal-admi ( 7 E . L . R . 301 at page 310 ) , Prabhudas v . Jorsang ( 13 
nistration resulting in the present conditions and, E . L . R . 110 ) , Mubarak Mazdoor v . Lal Bahadur ( 20 
therefore , I pleaded to build up a viable alternative E . L . R . 176 at page 219 ) , B . Rajagopola Rao y , N , 
to the Congress , (Whatever I meant by Congress , 

G . 
Ranga ( A . I. R . 1971 S . C . 267-para 
I was a Congress led by Jagjivan Ram ) to 

32 ) , Ramdayal v . 
help Brlraj Singh ( A . I. R . 1970 S . C . 110 ) and Nagraj Patodia 
and strengthen Jan Sangh . I did not mako any V , R . K . Birla ( A . I. R . 1971 Supremo Court, 1295) . 
personal appeal to the people to vote for me as 
I had known the arca so well and there was no 
need for it as at reflected in tho election result. 

64, I have given my careful consideration to the conten 

I tions raised beforo me and I am clear in my mind that in 
have confidence in my cloctoratos." 

this case , there is no material on record to show that the 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1 703 
Im - - - - - I - - 

- - TIS 

- _ = -- = --- - - - - 
Jan Sangh Party acted as an agent of the respondent for 80 , there was all the more reason to use the influence of the 
his clection work for the reasons I presontly show , 

respondent to mako tho Jan Sangh popular in this consti 

tuency, From the analysis of the evidence on record , it is 
65, Section 100 ( 1 ) of the Act says that High Court shall quite obvious that because of the respondent s popularity , tho 
declare the election of the returned candidate to be void if 

Jan Sangh Party wanted to utilise the influence of the res 
it is proved that any corrupt practice has been committed pondent as well as that of his mother to its maximum bene 
by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other 

fit. With this end in view , the helicopters were hired SO 
person with the consent of a returned candidate or his 

that the respondent may be made more mobile to propagato 
clection agent. In a case reported in Mast Ramy , Harnam 

the policies of the Jan Sangh . The fact that the helicoptery 
Singh Sethi ( 7 E . L . R . 301 ) , the test applied in such liko 

were kept in the palace compound points to this direction 
cases was whether the expenses to be borne by the political 

and also to their safeparking there . 
party is of the candidate is as follows: 

69 . The respondent himself as R . W . 1 in paragraph 9 
" The test in this case was held to be whether the main 

and 73 of his deposition has deposed that he was propaga 
object of the meeting was to promote the election 

ting the ideologies and policies of the Jan Sangh ." As re 
of the candidate and that the line must be drawn 

gards the payment of Rs. 5 ,000 / - to Shri Shejwalkar vide 
between meetings called with the direct object of 

Voucher No . 155 of Ex. P - 2 , the respondent has said in 
advancing the clection of the candidate , and mce 

paragrph 12 of his statement as follows: - - 
tings called for another object from attendance upon 
which tho candidate only derived some indirect or 

suggested to Mr. Shejwalkar that I wanted to make 
remote advantage ." 

Bomc tokon payment for the use of the helicopter 

for any marginal benefit which people might think 
In Mubarak Mazdoor v . Lal Bahadur (20 E . L . R . 176 ), 

that I had derived and he proposed & sum of 
their Lordships of the Allahabad High Court observed at 

Rs. 5,000 / - on an ad hoc basis and I make the 
pago 219 as follows: -- - 

payment accordingly . I wanted to clear my position 

80 that any outsider might not have any doubt 
We may also take notice of an argument which WAS 

about its use . In my opinion , I did not derive any 
Advanced by Mr. Pathak on the basis of the word 

benefit out of the use of the helicopter. The pay 
" locurred or authorised " used in Section 77 of the 

ment was made as a notional benefit and it was 
Act. The Act uses the word " incurred or authorised" 

made on ad hoc basis as there could not have 
and neither of them can mean the same thing an 

heen any rcal benefit " . 
the expression " with the consent of" The word 
" authorised" is not equivalent to the expression 

In paragraph 13 , he ha , again said that the Party was 
" with the consent or in the knowledge of " , so that 

getting the benefit by the use of the helicopters And not him 
the law now requires something more than more 

self as he was rendered moro mobile. It is also pertinent to 
consent or knowledge of a candidate to the incusring note that there is no evidence on record to suggest that 
of expenses and that something is that the expen 

oither the respondent or his election agent made a request 
diture must have been authorised by him or by his 

to the Jan Şangh to do election work for him . It should be 
election agent." 

borne in mind that a political party , setting up a candidate , 

cannot be deemed to be the agent of the returned candidate 
60 . It is clear from the ratio of the rulings cited above 

in all cases. The crucial test is whether there has been an 
that in each casc , it is 4 question of fact whether the main 

employment of authorisation for the agent by the candidate 
object of the meeting was to promote the political opinion 

to do some election work or the adoption of the work when 
of the party or to promote the election of the candidatc, in 

done. It is true that in order to prove that a political party 
order to determine this question, it will be proper to consi 

or an association was an agent of the candidate , it is neces 
der oral as well as documentary evidence on record . It is 

sary to prove cither by the direct evidence or it may be in 
not in dispute that four helicopters were hired for the elec 

ferred from proved facts and circumstances which must 
tion work . I have given my findings , 29 aforesaid , that the 

necessarily establish that the dominant idea of the political 
helicopters in qucation were hired by thc Jan Sangh party 

party was to support the candidature of the 
and the payment was made by the Party . It is also in evi 

candidate and not to promote the political opinion of the party . 
dence that out of the four helicopters, helicopter VT -DZN 

On the proper analysis of the evidence on record , as well 
was used by the respondent mostly in Guna constituency. 

AS from a perusal of the documents , it is clear that there is 
Ex. P - 15 , EX, P - 16 , Ex. P - 17 , Ex . P - 155 LX . P - 128 Ex. R - 7 , neither direct evidence to prove the agent nor the evidence 
Ex. R - 8 Ex. P - 129 and Ex . P - 130 show that the other 

if read in the light of probabilities and attending circums 
helicopters moved all over the State and cien went outside 

tances to lead to the conclusion that there was an agency 
the State of Madhya Pradesh . 

for the purpose of election work between the Jan Sangh 

and the respondent. On the other hand, A9 aforesaid . the 
67. The evidence of the pilot officers of the helicopters, 

evidence of the petitioner supports the plea raised by the 
as discussed above , docs not need repetition . They are inde 

respondent in this connection . The petitioner, therefore . has 

not proved the allegation of corrupt practice said to have 
pendent witnesses and not connected with any of the politi 

been comitted by the respondent, as stated in paragraph 
cal party . They have clearly deposed that the progiamme 
of the fights used to be given cither by the Ex-Maharaja 

10 ( I ) of his petition , 
of Gwalior or any mcmber of the Jan Sangh Party and two 

70 . As regards the allegation made in paragraph 10 ( 1 ) 
persons always travelled in the helicopter and the respon . 

( 2 ) of the petition, there is no evidence to show that Shri 
dent advocated the general policies of the Jan Sangh and 

mati Vijja Raje Scindia want to all the places nicntioned 
criticised the policies of the Congress and this is what has been 

in this paragraph and that too with tho consent of the res 
advocated in Ex. P - 2 / 10 of Ex. P -2 . The rest of thc wit 

pondent. Tho respondent, in his statement has clearly 
ncssc examined by the petitioner as regards the speeches made 

stated that his mothor did not work for his clection with 
by the respondent being partisan witnesses, their evidence 

his consent. So this allegation is not proved. 
was scrutinised carefully because the partisan atmosphere 
continues even after the election . It is true that oral çvidence 71 . The next allcgation as given in paragraph 10 (II ) of 
cannot be brushed aside when such an evidence is highly tho petition is regarding the use of motor vehicles. The 
probable and the samo is corroborated by unimpeachable petitioner, in order to prove this corrupt practice has ota 
documentary evidence , but this is not the case here and mined Kailash Chandra ( P . W . 13 ) . Sardar Avtar Singh 
there is no tall tale cvidoncc of the documents brought on ( P . W . 14 ), Hamesh kumar Deoaliya ( P . W . 22 ) Harish 
record . 

chandra ( P . W . 26 ) , Haturam ( P . W . 27 ) Şantkumar 

( P . W . 28 ) . Kabulchand Khera ( P . W . 29 ) . Subrati 
68. It has come in evidence of the petitioner that tho ( P W . 30 ) Satyapal ( P . W . 31 ) , and Nandeoaro Bhonsle 
respondent and his mother were very popular in the region ( f . W . 32 ) , Multanmal Surana (P . W . 33 ) who is said to 
which formed the castwhilc State of Gwalior, so much so le i star witness, Babukhan ( P . W . 34 ) , Shiv Pragad 
that any candidate who was set up by them got elected . It 

( P . W . 35 ) , Shankesrao Bhonslo ( P . W . 36 ) and tho peti. 
is also an evidence of the petitioner that the respondent suc tioner himself, as (P . W . 37 ). The respondent has examined 
ceeded in the election on his own merit and not on account 

himself as R . W . 1 in rebuttal. 
of the Jan Sangh Party . The evidence of the petitioner, on 
the other hand , shows that there was not much of the in 

72. Shri Nahata , learned counsel for the petitioner, hus 
fluence of the Jun Sungh in the Guna constituency . If it is contended that the letters marked Ex. P - 224 to Ex. P - 256 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


1704 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

(PART II - 
- - - - - --- 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 

- -- - - - - - - 
show that Multanmal Surana ( P . W . 33 ) was put in charge $1tement, he has said that Shir Pratap Singh Raja Saheb of 
of the organisation of the election work of the respondent Umrl had two Vehicles ( 1 ) A standard car and ( 2 ) a jeop 
and he was connected with its every ph and , therefore , and both the vehicles were used for the election purposes of 
the four jeeps hired by him and the payments made for the respondcnt. In paragraph 14 he has clearly stated that 
Buch hire and the fuel expenses must have found place in he has no idea as to when and how the vehicles of Shri 
the election return . Thus Multanmul Suruna was his agent Pratap Singh were used in the election and 60 much so that 
for the purpose of his clection and that being so , whatever he does not remember the numbers of the vehicles . Moreover , 
payments were made for hiring of the jeeps as well as foi thç petitioner has confined its case to the hiring of four jeeps 
fuel consumed to the firm Rajaram Pannalal at Ashoknagar at Ashoknagar , 
should be taken as money spent by him for hiring of the 
jeeps and for fuel consumption on behalf of the respondent 

76 . The statement of Sardar Auvtar Singh ( P . W . 15 ) is 
and it is included in the return of election expenses of the 
respondent, he is guilty of the corrupt practice Under Sec 

also useless as in paragraph 11 of his statement, he has de 
tion 123 (6 ) of the Act. He also invited my attention to 

posed that he had no personal knowledge about the lise of the 
certain vouchers of Ex. P -2 to show that Om Prakash 

three jeeps for the election work of the respondent and what 
Bhargva wag working for the election of the respondent 

ho stated was that he know about it as told by Multanmal 

Surana , 
and as such he was uuthorised to spend money on his be 
half. He also stressed that the statement of Multanmal Su 
rana is corobborated by Shir Prasad ( P . W . 35 ) who was 

77 . Rameshkumar ( P . W . 22 ) is an interested witness 90 
maintaing the accounts for the respondent regarding Ashok much so that he issued onc pamphlet in support of the Cong 
nagar constituency and the statement of both these witnesses ress candidato and as stated by him in paragraph 11 of his 
coupled with the statement of Santkumar ( P . W . 28 ) , who deposition , he had seen Multanmal Surana , Babulal Jain and 
supplied petrol along with the stateinents of the owners of Rambali Sharma sitting in any of the three jeeps mentioned 
the jeeps and two drivers , it is satisfactorily established that by him , and, therefore , the came to the conclusion that they 
the respondent had spent ncarabout Rs. 25 , 000 /- on this were working for the respondent. He also stated that all tho 
item which he has not included in his election return , Ho three jeeps used to move about whenever the respondent camc 
also pointed out that the cash book Ex P . 268 produced to Ashoknagar and this is how he thought that they were 
by the respondent in connection with the muintaining of used for the respondent s election work . This is not the tyre 
election accounts is not the real cash book and he has also of evidence required to prove the use of vehicles for election 
pointed out certain defects in it to show that the election purposes. His evidence does not seem to be reliable . 
account was not properly maintained . Shri Nahata has cited 
in support of his contention rulings roported in M . S . Souri 

78. It will be proper to take up and consider the evidence 
muthu Udayar v . K . Pandaral ( 20 6 L . 256 ) , Kata , ia of Santkumar ( P . W . 28 ) and his two munims, Harishchandra 
Takandas v . Pinto Prederick Michael ( 18 E . I R 403 and ( P . W . 26 ) and Nathuram ( P . W . 27 ) together . Santkumar 
Karan Singh v . Jamuna Singh ( 15 E . L . R . 370 ) . 

( P . W . 28 ) himself is the owner of the firm Rajaram Panna 

lal, The evidence of this witness does not seem to be reliable. 
73. Shri Chitley learned counsel on the other hand has Hc, for the first time, met the respondent along with Multan 
urged that the petitioner , when for the first time amended mnl Surana ( P . W . 33 ) at his place at Gwalior in January 
paragraph 10 ( 11 ) of the petition on 21- 12 - 1971, only included 1971 at the instance of Multanmal Surana for the reason 
Multanmal Surana for the purpose that his jeep was used on that he wanted to have a talk to him regarding tube-welt 
hiro at Ashok -nagar by the respondent and it was as late as Machinc. Mụltanmal Surana ( P . W . 33 ) in paragraph 14 of 
in August 1972 when he amended subsequently this paragraph his statement has deposed in this connection that he had told 
of the petition vide order of the Court date 2 -8 - 1972 , and tho respondent that Santkumar ( P . W . 28 ) wanted some loan 
he introduced that Multanmal Surana was the agent of the from K B . Bank , Gwalior , for the purpose of purchasing a 
respondent for the purpose of his election . He has also ſur tube -well machine and it was there that the respondent had 
ther urged that the petitioner has cooked up bis case and told him to supply petrol to Multanmal Surana and the res 
further more the evidence of Multanmal Surana is not reli pondent would make the payment. In peragraph 7 of his 
tole . He also invited my attention that there is no materini cross -examination , this witness has stated that he did not tell 
on record to show that the expenses alleged to have been anything about this meeting to anybody till the date he was 
incurred by the petitioner in this connection were either in Court for his evidence . It is rather strange that how he 
authorised by the rcspondent or his election agent. He further appeared as a witness. It is also in evidence that the respon 
stressed that firstly the letters Ex . P - 244 to Ex. P - 256 said dent had told him that he should not keep the account in his 
to be sent to Multanmal Surana are not proved and moreover, name but there is no reasonable explanation as to why he 
Multanmal Surana was not summoned to bring those letters instructed his munim to mention in the khata of Multannal 
and he brought them on his own accord . Further more , there Surana that the petrol was supplied for the election of the 
is no proof as regards the authority i.c , who directed to send respondent against his direction . This is also noteworthy that 
his those letters . He also invited my attention to the fact that whether the respondent would at all tell Santkumar when he 
evidence of the petitioner in this regard is not reliable for the had met him for the first time in his palace that he shoulci 
reason that he has verified the paragraph 10 of his petition 

supply petrol for his election work , specially when Multan 
on information received from others while in his statement, mal Surana is said to be a man of his confidence , Santkumar 
he has said that he has personal knowledge about the use of himself has admitted that Multanmal Şurana holds a good 
the vehicles at Ashoknagar. He has also contended that look position at Ashoknagar and he is a millionairc . Then it is 
ing to the pleading, he is also not certain as to whether such difficult to follow as to why Multanmal Surunu took Şant 
an expenditure as alleged for the usc of the jeeps was autho kumar to Gwalior for one of the reasons that he should sup . 
rised by whom whether by the respondent or his election ply petrol for the purpose of clection , Normally , theso things 
agent. He also urged that the affidavit filed by the petitioner are not nado known and it is difficult to believe that he 
is also vague and defective . He has cited in support of his would be told to do this by the respondent who had not 
contention rulings reported in S . N . Balakrişhna v . Fernandez known him at all till then . In paragraph 9 of his statement, 
( A . I. R . 1969 S . Ç . 1201 ) and Mumara Nand 1 . Brijmohan Lal he has stated that all the demands for payment were made 
Sharma ( A .I. R . 1967 S . C . 808 ) . 

to Multanpal Surana and he made the payment. It is difficult 

to understand why the bills were not prepared in name of the 
74 . In order to decide this part of the issue, it is required respondent when the khata was in his name and the so called 
to refer to the relevant provisions of law as well as the evi instruction said to be issued by the respondent were not ies 
dence produced by the parties . Sub -Section ( 2 ) of section 99 pected . In a question put to him in paragraph 9 of his state 
of the Act says that in this connection and for section 100 ment, he has answered as follows: 
of the Act, expression Agent has the same meaning as in 
soction 123 of the Act. Third Explanation 10 section 123 

" It depends upon the position in life of a person . We 
of the Act reads as follows: 

also maintain such accounts for Congress Party 

people also . But we maintain accounts in tho names 
" In this section expression agent include an 

of responsible persong of the party and take the 
election agent , a polling agent and any person who 

power -of-attorney . I have no such power of attorney 
is held to have acted as an agent in connection with 

from the respondent , except the oral talk that I 
the election with the consent of the candidate . 

had ." . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
75. Statement of Kailash Chandra ( p . w . 13 ) as regards the In parugruph 10 , he has stated that when Shrimuti Indira Ji 
use of vehicles is of no consequence . In paragraph 5 of his got majority in the centre , ho became of congress view though 


SEC . 3 (ii) i THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1705 
- - - - - - 

- - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - ---= - = - = - = - = - = 
at the time of the mid term election , he was interested in the Shrimati Vijia Raje Scindia on 16 - 5 - 1971 and he paid only 
respondent. Ho is a type of the witness who goes with the Rs, 1 ,500 and after the receipt of notico and still the rest of 
wind and I do not consider him worthy of credence . 

Rs. 1,500 are due inspite of notice , Ex. R - 20 . In paragraph 

15 , he has deposed that he knows the prescribed limit of er 
79 . Harishchandra ( P . W . 26 ) was tho Munim of the film penditure to be spent in assembly as well as for Lok Sabha 
Rajaram Pangalal at the relevant time and according to him , election and in his assembly election , le had spent moro but 
petrol was supplied by the firm and the incient was made by he had shown less in his election return . According to him , 
Multanmal Surana and Shiv Prasad on the credit męmos vide he did not consider it bad if we spends more thull the pres 
Ex. P - 22 , Ex. P - 25, Ex . P -27, Ex. P - 122 ,, Ex, P - 127 , Ex. P - 131 cribed limit in his election. In paragraph 19 , he has deposed 
to Ex. P - 228 and vide Ex. P - 229 he had supplied petrol to that he wants to maintain the purety of the election though 
Multanmal Şurana when he had come himself. In paragraph he himself had not maintained it ag per his own statement in 
6 of his deposition , he has stated that he had shown all the 

paragraph 13 . In view of his own admission the evidence of a 
memos produced by him in Court to the petitioner two or 

person , who once was a great supporter of the respondent , 
four days after the poll but he did not supply him the copy 

says that he had a blind faith in him , has come to depose 
of the accounts filed in Court . Theic seems no reason why he 

against him , requires great scrutiny. 
should have shown the accounts to thọ petitioner of his own 
accord when be did not seek permission of Santkumar for the 
samc. If it is correct, there seems no reason why the peti 

84. In paragraph 2 of his statement, he has stated that the 
tioner should not have pleaded in his petition to agency of 

respondent had asked him to do the work on his behalf for 
Multanmal Surana earlier regarding which he had produced 

his election and he had agreed to do so . The respondent as 
the evidence very late. It throws a lot of suspicion on the 

R . W . 1 himself has denied in paragraph 16 of his statement 
veracity of such like evidence and his evidence inspires no 

that he did neither ask him to work for his election campaign 
confidence. 

nor did he give his consent for his working in his election , 

though he had no reason to doubt the bona fide of Surana 
80 . Nathuram ( P . W . 27 ) was also a Munim with the firm 

as a loyal Jan Şangh worker. He also said that ho did not 
Rajaram Pandalal at the relevant time. The firm maintained 4 

permit him for the purchase of any fuel for the motor vehiv 
roked bahi, Ex. P - 241, and there is a khatu for the supply 

les nor did he give his consent for the hirc of any vehicle for 
of petrol to Multanmal Surana , which is marked as Ex. P - 242 . 

his clection , Surana has not said in his statement as to when 
This khata is in his hand -writing. According to him , the firm 

and where the respondent asked him to do his clection work 
received a total amount of Rs. 6 ,305.73 P . from Multanmal 

and he agreed to do so . In paragraph 6 of his statement, he 
Susana on different dates. In his cross - examination , he admits 

had deposed that he had hired four jeeps at the rate of 
that the portion marked A to A in Ex. P -242 was written in 

Rs, 100 per jcop per day on the instructions from the respon 
his own handwriting and it was written at the same time. 

dent, and he paid hirecharges for the four jeeps to the tunc 
He has admitted that in the ledger book , he has nowhere 

of Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 13,000. He has also deposed that us 
written anything akin the word yaste and in tlic Khulcis 

regards the petrol, it was supplied by Santkumar and the 
some space is left over before writing the word samvat at 

indents were issued by him as well as by Shiv Prasad and the 
the end. Ho has further deposed as follows : 

total amount es regards hire of the jeeps and fuct consumed 

came to Rs. 36 ,000 . He has also deposed that he used to 
" I wrote the sarnama in E . . P - 242 from A . . . A at 

malc arangements for the meetings and all these were arrang 
the instance of Santkumar. It is correct that the 

ed at the instructions of the respondent. He spent a lot ot 
word va of the word Scindia is written on the word 

amount on behalf of the respondent on his instructions and 
sa of the word samvar . It is wrong to stay that 

the respondent had made payments to him . He has also depos 
the words vaste chuna Maharaju Madhorao 

cd that he authorised Shiv Prasad to issue indents but it is 

pertinent to note that neither Santkumar ( P . W . 28 ) nor his 
Scindlu were added afterwards." 

two munims have deposed that Suruna had authorised Shiv 
In paragraph , 6 , he has admitted that there is a khata of 

Prasad to issue lodents for the supply of petrol. In paragraplı 

3 of his statement, he has deposed that letter Ex . P - 244 bears 
Vinodkumar Raghuvanshi but it is not mentioned therein for 

the signatures of one Mahendrasingh and he indentifies his 
whom the petrol was suppi . It is clear from the over -writ 

signatures . Similarly he has stated as rcgards lotters Ex. P -216 
ing in the khata that the word vastc and the words petiol 

to Ex . P -235 exccpt Ex . P - 248 . As regards Ex . P -248 , he has 
was supplied for the olcction of the respondent were added 

also said that it bears the signatures of one Bhonsle whose 
afterwards with some motive . Had the respondent told him 

signatures he recognised and he received this letter from Umri 
as stated by Santkumar ( P . W . 28 ) that he should not open a 

house , Guna, but he is not in a position to say as to who 
petrol account in his name and specially when ho was interest 

had signed it. He also has deposed that he recognised the 
ed in his election and being a resident of Ashoknagar , which 

signature of Om Prakash Bhargava and letters Ex. P -264 and 
once formed the erstwhile State of Gwalior , it does not look 

Ex, P - 265 bear his signatures . 
probable why he would ask his Munim to add those words 
that the petrol way supplied for the election of the respon 

85. Now , the question ariscs whether the abovesaid letters 
dent. To mo, it appears that these words are added after 

have been proved to have been sent to Surana and what is 
wards in order to help the petitioner. It also looks improbable 

their legal effect According to section 47 of the Evidence Act. 
that the respondent would ask Şantkumar ( P . W . 25 ) for the 

Acquaintance with ones handwriting may be in three ways : 
supply of petrol when it was not declared that he would con 

( 1 ) seeing a person write ; ( 2 ) knowledge by correspondence; 
test the election . 

( 3 ) habitual submission of documents purporting to be writ 

ten by a person in the ordinary course of business. It is true 
81 . It is also pertinent to note that there was no authority 

that Surana hias stated that hc recognise the handwriting of 
with Santkumar to show that he should supply petrol on the Mahendra Singh and Ex. P - 244 bears his signature . Ex. P - 244 
indents given by Shiv Prasad ( P . N . 35 ) . Thuc is also no cvi 

is a letter sent to cight persons and out of which Surana is 
donce to show that Multanmal Surana had authorised Shiv 

one of them . From a peiusal of t ; is letter, and others , it 18 
Prasad to issue such indents. Taking all these facts into con 

clear that the name of Om Prakash Bhargava , Umri House , 
sideration , I am clear in my mind that it looks a cooked up 

Guna is typed one and one Mahendraşingh had signed for 
affairs . 

him . Similar is the case in respect of Ex. P - 245, Ex. P - 246 , 

Ex, P - 247 , Ex . P - 249, Ex. P -251, Ex. P - 252, Ex. P - 253 to Ex. 
82. I will next take up the evidence of Multanmal Surana P - 255 and they are said to be signed by Mahendrasingh as 
( P . W . 33 ) , the star witness of the petitioner , and thereafter deposed to by him . 
f will discuss the evidence of the owners of the jeeps who 
are said to have supplied them on hire and the two drivers who 

86 . The respondent, in his statement in paragraph 43 has 
had driven the two jeeps, out of four of them . 

deposed that he knows two Mahendrasinghs who were his 

A . D .Cs. It has also come in cvidence of Shri Dig Vijaya 
83 . It is not in dispute that Multanmal Surana was in Cong . Singh ( P . W . 19 ) , Ex. Rao Raja of Raghogarh , that Omprakash 
Tess till 1966 . According to him , he left the Congress in 1966 Bhargava was onc of the public forum which was working 
along with the group of Rajmata as he was not given a cond 

against the Congress . Shri Nahata , learned counsel for the peti 
ress ticket though he was a loyal congressman , It is also not tioner, has also invited my attention to some of the vouchers 
disputed that he was sitting in the assembly representing the in Ex. P - 2 saying that Om Prakash Bhargava was working 
Lok Suvak David Ex , R - 17. Sumt han also stated that he for the respondent. The respondent, in his statement, bag 
joined the Jan Sangh Party as the respondent wanted him to 

Jenied having authorised Om Prakash Bhargava to work in 
do so as he WAS & man of his confidence . In paragraph 17 , he his election . He has of course said that he did not know if 
has admitted that he had taken a loan of Rs. 3 ,000 froin his election ayent had authorised him to do so . There is no 


- 


- 


- AT 


1706 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

(PART II 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - 
material on record to show that his election agent Shri Ranoji He has furthor deposed that Bhonslo told him to give all tbe 
Rao Shindo allowed Om Prakash Bhargava to work on be corresponding papers to Surana and he took way tho cash 
half of the respondent. 

books with the concerning vouchers for Surana did not ask 

him for the account papers, but told him to give them to 
87 . Now the question ariscs whether Om Prakash Bhargava 

Bhonsle as he had come. He has further deposed that he did 
was allowed either by the respondent or his election Agent 

not give Ex. R - 19 to Ex , R -22 to Surana and he has no 
to work for the respondent and then the next question would 

knowledge whether the proforma like Ex. R -21 and R -22 
be, if it is so , whether Om Prakash Bhargava 

were issued from 
authorised 

his office . This gives a strange picture as 
Mahendra Singh to issue letters in quçstion to Surana . 

to how the account books were dealt with and how they were 
given either to Bhonslo or Chauhan without obtaining the 

receipt therefor. In paragraph 6 , lie has admitied that he 
88 . It is true that there was an election office of the l es does not know the full name of Daji and simply says that he 
pondent at Guna. There is no evidence to show that Om was also called Dayaji and even then he has identified his 
Prakash Bhargava was working in his election office . There signatures which seems very doubtful. The respondent himself 
is also no evidence to show that out of the two Mahendr2 in his statement has said that one Major Indurkar who was 
Singhs whether any one of them was working there on behalf 110t in his service at the relevant time, was called Daji but 
of the respondent. There is further no material on record to he was not authorised to work for him in his election . In 
show that cither Om Prakash Bhargava or Mahendra Singh paragraph 10 of his statements, he has said that although he 
was authorised by the respondent or his clection agent to do had known the petitioner for the last ten years , but he had no 
his election work . It is true that there are some vouchers in occasion either to meet him during the election of 1971 or 
Ex. P - 2 bearing the name of Om Prakash Bhargava such as till he appeared as a witness in this Court. It looks strange AS 
voucher No. 35 , but it is difficult to say whether it was signed to how he has come to give the evidence . In paragraph 11, he 
by Om Prakash Bhargava because nobody has proved it . says that there was a ledger in the name of Şurdana for tho 
Similar is the case with voucher Nos . 75 , 81 and 89. Voucher supply of petrol in the firm of Rajaram Pannalal. Hc does 
No. 92 does show that Rs. 106 . 25P , was received from one not say that there was a mention in the Khata that petrol 
Omprakash Bhargava by the Deputy Collector , District Guna . was to be supplied for the olection of the respondent and it 
Voucher No. 101 is a bill addressed to Bhargava but it is not appears that the word vaste and for the election of the ros 
clear whether he is the same Om Prakash Bhargava or some pondent were added afterwards. In paragraph 13 of his state 
Other Bhargava . Even assuming if Ex. P - 2 contains one or two ment, he has said that Surana hired the jeeps and he has no 
vouchers addressed to Bhargava , it cannot be said that he idea whether there was any writing about it and he does 
was working as his agent for the respondent and further more not remember the registration numbers of those jeeps. It is 
there is no materjal as aforesaid to conclude that he was difficult to believe that a person who , according to him , wag 
authorised to address the letters to Surana and others and keeping the accounts and making the payments is so ignorant 
more over this chain in the link of the cvidence is also mis as to whether there was at all any writing about the hiring 
sing that whether Om Prakash Bhargava at all authorised of the jeeps and made the payment without having any idea 
Mahendrasingh and that too to which Mahendrasingh to ad regarding the registration numbers of the Jeeps . He is a resi: 
dress such letters to Surana . It is also pertinent to note that dent of Ashok -nagar and is in politics for the last ten years 
Surana was not asked to bring these letters and he had 

and his evidence if judged as a whole , leaves an impression 
brought them of his own accord . It is correct that if there that he is not a reliable witness . 
is a proof to connect these letters to the election of the res 
pondent certainly they will be considered for whatever they 
are worth , but in the instant case , for the aforesaid reasong, 

91. Now thc evidence of Kabulchand Khera ( P . W . 29 ) 
the petitioner has not been able to prove that Om Prakash 

Subhrati ( P . W . 30 ) . Satyapal ( P . W . 31 ) , Namdeorao 
Bhargava was authorised either by the respondent or his clec 

Bhonsle ( P . W . 32 ) , Babukhan ( P . W . 34 ) and Shankar Rao 
tion agent to issue such letters and Om Prakash Bhargava , is 

Bhonsle ( P . W . 36 ) requires consideration . 
turn , authorised Mahendrasingh to do so . 

92 . Kabulchand Khera ( P . W . 29 ) has deposed that he 
89 . Much stress has been laid on letter , Ex . P - 248 , by Shri 

supplied ono jecp , registration No. 3630 MPH to Surana on 
Nahata , learned counsel for the petitioner , to show that the 

birc at Rs. 100 per day and he received Rs. 2 ,500 from him . 
jeeps in question were hired by Surana and the payment was 

He is a grain merchant and according to him , he ordinarily 
ultimately made by the respondent. This letter is said to be 

gives jeep on hire . He has admitted that he has maintained 
addrossed by Y . N . Bhopslc to the election Officer , Uniri 

no accounts for the receipt of the amount of Rs. 2 , 500 . He 
House , Guna , but Surana in paragraph 4 of his statement has 

has also admitted that there was no writing between Surana 
said that he does not know who had signed the samc. So this 

and him regarding the hiring of the jeep . In paragraph 4 of 
letter also is not proved . It might be that Surana was working his statement, he has stated that he received the money on 
for the Jan Sangh as he was then an M . L . A . representing that 

behalf of the respondent simply because he was so told by 
Party , but it is difficult to believe that he was authorised to 

Surana. He has maintained also no record for giving the 
hire the jeeps for the election work of the respondent by him jeep on hire . As aforesaid , it is not in the natural course of 
or by his election agent. According to him , he had spent for events that Surana would go on proclaiming to every one 
the election of the respondent to the extent of Rs. 36 , 000 but whose jeep he had hired that the money was being paid on 
it looks strange that he would allow the account books to be behalf of the respondent, even though therc was on delay in 
taken away by Bhonsle or Chauhan to Umri House Guna , the payment. This kind of oral evidence is of no consequence , 
without caring to get the receipt when he was careful 
enough to retain the aforesaid letters with him . I do not find 

93. Subhrati ( P . W . 30 ) is a driver of Kubulchand. His evi 
his evidence worthy of credence for the aforesaid reasons. 

dencc is also of no consequence as he has said in para 3 of 

his statement, on a court question , that the jeep was used in 
90 . Similar is the case of Shiv Prasad ( P . W . 35 ) who hus 

the month of February but he is unable to name the ycar. 
deposed that he was maintaining the accounts on behalf of 

He has admitted that he does not know the English calender 
tho respondent at the instructions of Surana. He has also 

months but he could not give any reason as to how he re 
said that Chauhan and Bhonsle were sent on behalf of the 

membered the month of February . 
respondent at Ashoknagar but there is no convincing evidence 
for the same. He has stated that Ex. P - 267 bears the signa 
tures of one Duji and he identifies the same. As regards the 

94. Evidence of Satyapal ( P . W . 31) also does not inspire 
payment of money he has said in paragraph 4 of his state 

confidence . He has a business of giving on hire furniture and 
ment that Surana used to pay him and he does not know who crockery and he has a shop for that purpose . Although he 
paid him . He has also deposed that he never gave any au does not give jeep on hire but he had given it to Surana , 
count papers cither to Chauhan or Bhonsle but sometimes, he Ordinarily , whenever he gives furniture or crockery on hire , 
submitted it to Surana . He has no idea as to when and how he gets the form signed by the hirer and maintains his rokad 
much amount was paid to Surana either by Chauhan or hali also but in this case , he hos neither got any form signed 
Bhonsle . It is , however , strange that he would give the ac by Surana nor entered the amount received by him in his ac 
count papers either to Chauhan or Bhonslc or both without colint books. He has also no occasion to mect the respondent 
obtaining any receipt for the purpose when he was in charge personally and he was told by Surana that the payment was 
of the accounts as deposed to by him , In purngraph 5 , he being made on behalf of the respondent. He is also of the 
again states that all the account books were taken away by same type of witness who liad not informed the petitioner 
Chauhan and Bhonsle and the rest of the corresponding that his jeep was hired by Surana and he got the hire charges 
papers were given to Surana and he kept these papers with but he came in the witness box . It is further strange that he 
him as he was all in all and morcover he had cngaged him , cven does not remember from whoin he had purchased the 


Sec , 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1707 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - = = - 

- - -- - - - - - 
joop in question . In paragraph 8 of his deposition, he has Issue No. 2 (b ) : 
doposed that ho got the petrol from the firm Rajaram Panna 
lal but he was not required to sign the indent. 

102. This issue has already been decided along with issue 

No. 1 ( b ) ilde my order dated 15 - 10 - 1971 in favour of the 
95. Nandcorao Bhonsle ( P . W . 32 ) has deposed that he 

petitioner. 
had given his jeep , registration No. DHA 309, on hire at the 
rate of Rs. 100 per day and got Rs. 3 ,000 in all. He had 

Issue No. 3 : 
gupported the Congress in the mid term election and he too 

103 . This issue No. 3 has also been decided in favour of 
has not maintained any account for the receipt of the amount. 

the petitioner vide my Order dated 15 - 10 - 1971 . 
According to him , either his brother or his cousin was driv 
ing the jeep though there was no agreement for the same to 

104. The respondent has filed an interlocutory application 
supply a driver. He had also no idea whether any T . A . and No . 38 of 1972 on 3 - 8 - 1972 alleging that a corrupt practice 
D . A . were paid to his brother or cousin for Jriving the jeep . has been pleaded against One Shiv Pratap Singh in paragraph 
Ho was also told by Surana Similarly that the payment was 11 ( iv ) (wrongly numbered as 10 (III ) (iv ) of the petition , 
being made on behalf of the respondent which is difficult to who had filęd his nomination paper and after its scrutiny 
bclicve, 

when it was found valid , he had withdrawn the same. It is a 

clcar case of non -joinder of a necessary party and , therefore , 
96 , Babu Khan (P . W . 34 ) is a driver of Multanmal Surana 

the election petition also be dismissed on this ground . 
of jeep No. MPG 6304. In paragraph 2 of his statement, he 105. The reply of the petitioner is that no corrupt practico 
has deposed that ho was given Rş. 10 per day for driving the 

is pleaded against Shiv Pratap Singh and on the other hand 
jeep for the election purposes but do receipt was obtained 

this para contains two instances of undue influence pleaded 
from him and thero is no account to substantiate his statement 

thercin . 
lo paragraph 3 of his statement, he has stated that the icep 
Was given on hire for the election purposes because he was 

106 . The respondent also filed an application . I. A . No. 
told by Surana and other people also used to say so . It is 76 / 72 under section 87 of the Act read with section 137 of 
really strange that according to him when he was driving the the Evidence Act and produced along with it a copy of the 
jeep for election purposes, what was the necessity of other petition , marked True copy said to be received by the respon 
people of telling him so when he himself was doing that job . dent that the petitioner has made some erasures after the 
It is apparent that he is a got up witness . 

petition was fied . The petitioner , in reply , has said that the 

erasures were merely scorings which are duly initialled by the 
97 . Shankar Rao Bhonsle (P . W . 36 ) is the brother of 

petitioner and they were done at the time the petition was 
Nandoorao Bhonsle ( P . W . 33 ) , who is driving the jeep on 

filed. The respondent was examined Shri L . S . Baghel Advo 
behalf of his brother. In paragraplı 2 of his statement, he 

cate in support of his application and the petitioner has lod 
stated that ho did not work for any political party in the 

no cvidence . 
election but it is surprising that while driving the jeep he used 

107 . Shri Baghel has produced Ex, R - 33 , a copy of the 
to shout, " Vote for tho respondent" . His brother worked for petition which he got it typed from the copy he had reccived 
the Congress in 1972 election and he too is a witness who from the office of the High Court. He is not in a position 
does not inspire confidence . 

to say definitely whether Ex , R - 33 is a true copy of the copy 

he had received from the High Court Office after he had 
98 . The petitioner himself in paragraph 4 of his statement 

field the memo of appearance . The Statement of Shri Baghel 
has said that he had a personal knowledge that four jeeps 

does not prove anything about craşures and so paragraph 
were used at Ashoknagar for the election of the respondent. 

11 (iv ) equivalent to paragraph 10 (III ) (iv ) (wrongly num 
Tho potitioner is an Advocate and it is difficult to believe 

bered ) as it exists in the petition has to bo taken up for 
that having known it, how did he verify this fact in his peti 

consideration to decide whether a corrupt practice is pleaded 
tion from information received from others and not from his against a withdrawn candidate . 
personal knowledge . It is also not understandable us to how 

108 . It is not in dispute that Shri Shiv Pratap Singh had 
he did not come with this charge against the respondent at 

filed his nomination paper and it was found valid on scrutiny 
the time ho filed the election petition and he took so much 
time to amend his petition in this regard when the clection 

and he had withdrawn his candidature . His identity is also 

not in dispute . 
petition was about to be disposed of. In paragraph 17 of his 
statement, he has stated that he had no talk with Surana rc 

109. Now , the question arises whether the corrupt practice 
garding the election in question either during the election shall join as respondents to his petition 
days or thereafter but it looks odd as to how he came to 
know that Surana had hired the jeeps for the election of the 

" (b ) any other candidate against whom allegations of 
rospondent and ho had also made the payment . Though he 

any corrupt practice are made in the petition . " 
has said that he learnt about it from drivers and owners of 
the jeeps, in paragraph 18 , but that does not look probable 

and section 86 says that the High Court shall dismiss an 
in the circumstances of the case . 

election petition which does not comply with the provisions 
of section 81 or section 82 or section 117 of the Act. The 

law on the subject is well established that in a case of a can 
99 . As aforesaid , taking into consideration the fact that 

didate who had withdrawn and if an allegation of corript 
the plea of corrupt practice is somewhat akin to a criminal 

practice is alleged against him , he is a necessary party 
charge, it was for the petitioner to prove the commission of 

and 

without him the election petition has got to be dismissed . If 
the corrupt practice and discharge that burden satisfactorily 

any ruling is required for the purpose , scc Kashinath v . 
and in doing so , he cannot depend on preponderence or more 

Kudsia Begam ( A . I. R . 1971 Supreme Court, 372 ) , Amin Lal 
probabilities as the Courts do not set at naught the verdict 

V Hunna Mal (AIR . 1965 S . C . 1243 ) , Mohan Raj v . 
of the electorate except on good grounds. The type of evidence 

Surendra Kumar ( A . I. R . 1969 S . C . 677 ) , N . E . Horo 
produced by the petitioner, as discussed above, falls short 

v . 
of that standard and he has failed to proved this charge . 

Jahan Ara ( A . I. R . 1972 Supreme Court, 1840 ), Raghunath 
Therefore , the issuo No . 1 (a ) is decided in favour of the res 

singh v . Gorardhan and others ( 1972 M . P .LJ. 519 ) . 
pondent and against the petitioner . 

109. Now , the question arises whether the corrupt practice 

has been alleged against Shiv Pratap Singh in paragraph 11 
Issue No. 1 (b ) 

(iv ) equlvalent to Para . 10 ( III ) of the petition. The relevant 

part of the pleading is as follows: 
100 . This issue has been decided by my order dated 15 - 10 

" Re : Undue Influence Under Section 123 (2 ) of 
1971 in favour of the petitioner . 

Representation of the People Act: 
Issue No. 2(a) 

That, the workers of the respondent, with his consent 
101. Tho petitioner has not pressed tho corrupt practice 

havo threatened the electors with an injury to their 
pleaded against the respondent of unduo influence under sec 

body and they wero criminally intimidated in case 
tlon 123 ( 2 ) of the Act as dotailed in paragraph 11 (wrongly 

they voto for Dcorao Krighnarao Jadhav, the Con 
numbored as 10 (III ) of the potition . Therefore , this issue is 

gress candidate, The few instances of tho same are 
decided against the petitioner and in favour of the respon 

given hereunder : 
dent. 


1708 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[PART II 
- - - - - - - - 

= = = = 
( iv ) That on or before 22- 2 - 71 , Shri Mohan Prasad petition was not within time. Tho objection raised on this 

Ojba, a congress worker of " village Umri ( Tahsil ground is apparently groundless , and hence this 15 $ue is decided 
Guna ) was threatened at pistol-point by the workers in favour of the petitioner . 
of the respondent witi his consent . Shri Shiv Pratap 
Singh and others of Umri threatened not to vote and 

4 . Thę pctitioner is paid 10 (I) and 10 (II) of his petition 
canvass in favour of the Congress candidate , has alleged that the respondent and his election agent had 
Deora Krishnarao Jadhuv und threatening with dire incurred or hud authorised expenditure in connection with 
consequences. " 

his election , between the 27th January , 1971 ana 11th March , 

1971, in contravention of S . 77 of the Act, i.e . he had exceed 
The contention raised by Shri Nahata , learned counsel for the ed the prescribed limit , which was Rs. 33 , 000 in this case, 
petition , is that pragraph 1 iv ) - 10 ( III ) (iv ) contains under S . 77 (3 ) of the Act, read with rule 90 of the Conduct 
two allegations of undue influences and the second one, accoi of Election Rules, 1961 ( here - in -atter called the rulca ), and 
ding to him , consists of threatening Shiv Pratap Singh who thus he is guilty of corrupt practice under S . 123(6 ) of the 
wantod to canvass for the Congress candidate , but this cons Act . 
truction is not possible . It clearly says that Shri Mohan 
Prasad Ojha, a Congress workor, was threatened at a pistol 5 . In para 10 (I) of the election petition , the petitioner has 
point by the Workers of the respondent with his consent and dealt with the use of 4 helicopters . It is alleged that they 
thçreafter it says that , 

wore used for the purposes of election by the respondent 

himself as also by his election agent and that the expenditure 
" Shri Shiv Pratap Singh and others of Umri threatened on that account has not been included in the return of the 

not to vote and canvass in favour of the Congress election expenses. He has given in para 10 ( 1) the places 
candidate , Doorao Krishnarao Jadhav and threaten visited by the respondent alongwith the dates, by helicopters , 
ing with dire consequences." 

and the election expenses are said to be to the extent of 

Rs. 60, 000 . In para 10 (IT), the names of the places visited 
110 . It is true that the allogation must constitute a corrupt by the respondent s mother and so called agent, Smt. Vijaya 
practice and not a mere suggestion in the petition in case of 

Raje Scindia , alongwith the dates are given , and this WAN 
a dismissal on the ground of a non -joinder of a necessary in connection with the election work of the respondent and was 
party . The petitioner has tried to wrigglo out from the unfor with his consent. 
tunate position he was placed in not making Shri Pratap 
Singh a party in tho potition against whom a corrupt practice 6 . Shri K . A . Chitale , the learned counsel for the respondent 
was pleadod and he tried to put an interpretation which in has invited my attention to par 10 and 10 ( 1 ) of tho written 
no circumstances of the caso is possible to read and, therefore , statement of the respondent and stressed that the allegation 
I am clear in my mind that this defoot being fatal, the elec in question lacks in material particulars, as neither the numbers 
tion potition of the petitioner doserves to be dismissed , as in of helicopters in question have been given por their owner 
the instant case , the allegation made against Shiv Pratap Singh has been named , nor it is shown who had chartered them 
is of unduc influence under section 123 ( 2 ) of the Act and he and on what dates , and in the absence of such important 
has not beon made a party to the petition , 

particulars, the allegation cannot be enquired into . He fur 

ther invited my attention to para 10 (1) of the petition regarding 
Iskue No. 4 

the helicopters, and argued that the allegations therein are 

only infcrcntial and conjectural and so they cannot constitute 
111. The petitioner having failed to prove both the issues a definitc allegation of facts , and in support, he relied on 
No. 1 And No. 2 , he is not entitled to any relief . 

the rulings in R . M . Seshadri v . G . Vasantha Pal and others 

( AIR 1969 S . C . 692 ), Samiant N . Balakrishna , etc , V . George 
112 . In the result, the election petition is dismissed with Fernandez, and others etc. (AIR 1969 S . C . 120 . ), Rain Dayal 
costs. Counsel feo Rs. 600 and this shall be deduoted from V . Brijraj Singh and others ( AIR 1970 S . C . 110 ), Snit . Sana 
the security amount deposited by the petitioner. The balance Devl w / o Dwarkaprasad V . Birendrasingh S / o Bent Singh 
of the security amount sball be refunded to the petitioner. and others (AIR 1961 M . P . 127) and Balwant Singh v . 

Lakshmi Narain ( 1962 Double s Election Cascs, 71). 

SURAJBHAN , Judge. 
27- 10 - 1972 

7 . Shri P . L . Dube, the learned counsel for the petitioner 
on the other had urged that the petitioner bas very clearly 

said that 4 helicopters were used by respondent for the pur 
COPY OF COURT S ORDER DATED 15 - 10 - 1971, IN EP. poses of his election . The places he visited with dates are 

also given . The corrupt practice pleaded is that of incurring 
NO. 5 ON 1971 

or authorising to incur the expenditurc during the election in 
Election Petition No. 5 of 1971 

contravention of S . 77 of the Act, and it has nothing to do 

with cither the hire or ol procuring of the helicopters. He, 
Udhav Singh V . Shri Madhav R10 Scindia . 

therefore , urged that it was not necessary to mention in tho 

election petition as to who had chartered the helicopters in 
ORDER 

question and other matters agitated by the other side, and in 
[On preliminary issues 1 (b ), 2 (b ) and 3 ] 

support he cited the rulings in Kamal Nirain v . D . P . Mishra 

and another ( 1970 M .P . L . J . 826 ) and Shri Kishart V . Sat 
Isyue No. 3 

Narnih and others (1968 Doabla s Election Cases , 123 ). 
It is not in dispute that the result of the election was 
declared by the returning officer in this case on 11th March , 

8 . On giving my careful consideration to the contentions 
1971. The election petition was filed on 26 - 4 -71. The res . 

raised before me by the Icarned coursel on both sides, I am 
pondent in para 8 of his wiitten statement , has said that 

of the view that the paragraphs in question cannot be said 
the petition filed by the petitioner is not within time. 

to be lacking in material particulars , so far as the decision 

of this issue is concerned . 
2 . Chapter V of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(here - in - after called the Act ) deals with the counting of votes. 

9 . At the very outset, I must say that S . 123 (6 ) of the 
S . 66 deals with the declaration of the result and S . 67 - A Act prescribes incurring or authorising to incur cxpenditure 
says that for the purposes of this Act, the date on which a in connection with the election in contravention of S . 77 of 
candidato is declared by the returning officer under the the Act, amounts to it corrupt practice . $ . 77 of the Act 
provisions of S . 53 or S . 66 to be elected to the House of deals with the account of the election oxpenses, and about the 
the Parliament. . . . . . . . , shall be the date of election of that maximum Jimit prescribed therefore, Sub -section ( 3 ) of this 
candidate . S . 81 of the Act prescribes the period of 43 days section also says that the total of the said expenditurt shall 
for filing the election petition either by the candidate or any not exceed such amount as may be prescribed , which is 
elector from the date of the luci C11 of the returned candi Rs. 35, 000 in the instant cuse , and sub -section ( 1) says that 
date . 

the candidate at the election, cither by himself or by his 

olection agent, shall keep separate and correct accounts of 
3 . 25th of April 1971 was a Sunday , and the petition in all expenses incurred in connection with the election , whether 
this case was filed hy the petitioner of the 26th April . 1971 . incurred by sclf or authorised by him or by his election agent, 
Thus, it is clcarly within time, and the learned counsel for between the data of the publication of the notification calling 
the responclent has not been able to show as to how this the election and the date of declaration of the result thereof 


Sec . 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1709 
- - - - ---- - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
( both days inclusive ). S . 83 deals with the contenis ur ine In this situation , therefore, it is not necessary now to ask 
election petition . S . 83( 1 )(b ) provides that an election peti for further particulars as the allegation in regard to those 
tion shall act forth full particulars of any corrupt practico vehicles of which particulars are not inentioned have been 
that the petitioner allegos, including as full a statement is abandoned by the learned counsel for tho respondent. It 
possible , of the names of the parties alleged to have com appears from a reading of the said paragraph that details 
mitted such corrupt practice and the date and place of the about only 9 vehicles out of 18 mentioned have been given , 
comiiission of such corrupt practice etc . 

and it is ordered that thc pctitioner sball not be allowed to 
lead cvidence in respect of the matters connected with the 

vehicles of which details have not been supplied . 
10. So, from the language used , it is quite clear that 
this provision of law requires the setting forth of full par 
ticulars of corrupt practices and especially it mentions at least 

16 . In vicw of the stand taken by the counsel for the 
three particulars must be given , viz . the names of partics 

petitioner, on this point, he may , if he so desires , take the 

corresponding amendmcnt in the amount of expenses shown 
alleged to have committed the corrupt practice , the dates 
when such corrupt practice is said to have been committed and 

on vehicles amounting to Rs. 25 , 000 , which pertain to 18 
also the place of the commission of such corrupt practice. It 

vehicles . This amendment , if he so chooses , shall be carried 

out within 10 days . 
is truc that in stating the material facts , if the words of 
the section are merely quoted , the efficacy of the words 

17. This issue is , therefore , answered accordingly . 
material facts would be lost, as thcir Lodships of the 
Supreine Court have observed in Samant N . Balakrishna etc . 18. Issue No. 2 (b ) 
V . George Farnandez and others (AIR 1969 S . C . 1201) . 
It is also equally true that the allegation of currupt practico 

This issue deals with an allegation of the petitioner made 
should be given with suflicient fullness and clarification , so 

in para 10 ( III ) remarked as para 11 of the election petition . 
that the opposite party may fairly meet the same as these are 

Shri Dube has agreed that so far as this corrupt practice of 
quiaşi criminal proceedings and the standard of proof icquired 

Linduc influence under S . 123 ( 2 ) of the Act is concerned , 
is that which should be beyond a reasonable doubt Es is 

as detailed in the aforesaid paragraph , he will confine his 
required in criminal offences. Otherwise , without the material 

evidence etc . only in regard to the facts relating to the 
particulars, the enquiry will only be rambling and a roving 

persons who have been named , and the particulars of which 
one which S . 83 of the Act protects. 

have been supplied , in the paragraphs and leave out others 

about whom details have not been furnished . 
11. As aforesaid , the corrupt practice alleged by the peti 

19 . In view of the aforesaid stand now taken by the counsel 
tioner against the respondent is that of having incurred or 

for the petitioner, it is not necessary to ask for further 
having authorised the expenditure in connection with his 

material particulars , which wcie said to be lacking in this 
election in contravention of S . 77 of the Act. It is not a 
corrupt practice under $ 123( 5) of the Act. In cases of 

paragraph , 
corrupt practice under S . 123( 5 ) ag reported in Balw2111tsioghi 20 . This issuic , is therefore , decided accordingly. 
V . Lokshmi Narain (1962 Doabia s Election cases, 77 ). Their 
Lordships held that it was sufficient compliance with the 

SURAJBHAN , Judge 
corrupt practice consists in the fact of hiring or procuring of 

15 - 10 - 1971 
vehicles for the conveyance of voters and not in the contract 
of hiring or procuring. Thus if the particulars about the 

TRUE COPY 
use of a vehicle for conveying voters to and from the polling 

Sd /- ILLEGIBLE , Dy. Registrar , 
booths with the other necessary details are given Their 
Lordships held that it was sufficient compliance with the 

(No. 82 /MP /5 /711 
provisions of law , and it was not necessary to give any more 
details, such as contract of hiring or arrangement for pro 

B , N . BHARDWAJ, Secy . 
curing. 

आदेश 
12 . In thc instant case , the petitioner has nientioned that 
4 helicopters were taken on hirc . In pria 10 ( 1) it is further 
mentioned that they were hired or procuued by respondent 

the fecit, 29 href, 1973 
himself and the Bhartiya Jan Sangh party or Shri Shejwalkar 
had nothing to do with those helicopters . It mentions the 

47. 37. 1235.-- - T ,HATT OUT AT TATUT DI TUTTO 
places as respondent had visited , and also gives the dates 

कि मार्च, 1972 को हुए महाराष्ट्र विधान सभा के लिए निर्वाचन के 
of his visits there , by the aforesaid helicopters . 
It also mentions the amount of the expenditure incuried in 

लिए 156- उमरखेड निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार 
connection with such visits . It is also mentioned that tho श्री नाईक पन्द्रसिंह अमर सिंह गर्नश, बोर्ड , पसान, तालक पुसाद, जिला 
said helicopters were used for the election purnoses . The 
respondent has , however , denied this allegation and the expen योसमाल ( महाराष्ट्र ) लोक प्रतिनिधिस्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा 
diture said to be incurred in regard to them . The contention तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों 
of the respondent in reality is that it was the Bharatiya 
Jan Sangh , a political party , who had 119ed theni for the का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है , 
purposo of their own party propaganda , and they were not 
used by tho respondent or any other person with his consent . 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर 
13 . In my vicw , the corrupt practice pleaded , gives all the भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं 
material particulars as are required by S . 83 of the Act , 
and it was not necessary for the petitioner to add wlio had 
chartered those helicopters or who was their owner , alihough 
the petitioner has alleged that they were hired by the respon 

पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायाचित्य नहीं 
dent himself. I, therefore , hold that the allegation in the 
election petition regarding the helicopters does not lack in 
material particulars 

अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण में 
14 . Para 10 ( II) of the petition deals with the usc of 18 
motor vehicles in connection with the election of the res 

निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त श्री नाईक चन्द्रसिंह अमर सिंह 
pondent and the expenditure said to be incurred or authorised 

को संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधानसभा 
by the respondent for his election work is to the tuno of 
Rs. 25 ,000 and it is alleged that this expenditure on motor 

अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य सुने जाने और होने के लिए इस 
vehicles has not been incurred in the return of the election 
cxpenses submitted by the respondent. 

आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित 
15. Shri P . L . Duhe, counsel for the petitioner, agreed that PEGI 
he would confinc his allegation only to those vehicles , of 
which full necessary details have been mentioned in this para . 

[ T. HET.-19 . 7./ 156 /72 ( 12 ) ] 
11 G of T / 733 


दिया है , और आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि उसके 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


1710 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II 
- - - - . . - - . : - . . 
ORDER 

Now , therefore, in pursuanco of section 10A of the said 

Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
New Delhi, the 29th March , 1973 

Atram Maroti Donu to be disqualified for being chosen 

as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
S .O . 1235. — Where the Election Commission is sutisfied or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of H 
that Shri Naik Chandusing Amaising, Ganesh Ward , Pusad, Tq. 

State for a period of three ycars from the date of this 
Pusad , District Yeotmal (Maharashtra ), a contesting candidate 

order . 
for the election hold In March, 1972 , to the Maharashtra Legis 

[ No. MT -LA / 145 / 72 (13 )] 
lative Assembly from 156 -Umarkhed Assembly Constituency , 

A . N . SEN , Secy, 
has failcd to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder ; 

आवेरा 
And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices . 

नई दिल्ली , 9 अप्रैल, 1979 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failuro and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
l cason or justification for such failure ; 

का , आ . 1237 . - यत :, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है 

कि 1971 में हए तमिलनाड, विधान सभा के लिए साधारण निर्वाचन 
Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri के लिए 172-वालंगिमान निर्वाचन -क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार 
Naik Chandusing Amaning to be disqualified for being chosen 

श्री के. नेहनचीजयान , 180-नागारासमपट्टई, पोस्ट , धिरूपेराई 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly of Legislative Council of a वाया, क ,म्बाकोनम सालक, जिला तंजावूर ( तमिलनाड ) , लोक प्रति 
State for a period of three years from the date of this निधिस्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों नारा 
order. 

[ No. MT - LA / 156 / 72 ( 12 ) ] अपेक्षित रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में 

असफल रहे हैं , 
आपरा 

___ और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार धारा किये गये अभ्यावेदन पर 
नई दिल्ली , 30 मार्च, 1973 

विचार करने के पश्चात्, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो 
का . आ . 1236. - यत :, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है 

गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
कि मार्च, 1972 को हए महाराष्ट्र विधान सभा के लिए निर्वाचन के 

या न्यायोचित्य नहीं , 
लिए 145-साओली निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार 

अतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 107 के अनसरण में 
श्री अतराम मारोती दोन , म . प पो . व्याहाद वर्ष तह, पन्द्रपुर जिला 

निर्वाचन आयोग एसइद्वारा उक्त श्री के . नानजियान 
( महाराष्ट्र ), लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन 

को संसप के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा 
बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई 

अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस 
भी होखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है ; 

आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित 
और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 

करता है । 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 

[ सं . त ना -षि , स./ 172/ 71 (48) ] 
नहीं दिया है , औरनिर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया है 
कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्याया 

ORDER 
चित्य नहीं है , 

New Delhi, the 9th April , 1973 
अतः अब , उक्स अधिनियम की धारा 10- के अनमरण में S. O . 1237. - Whereas the Flection Commission is satisfied 
निर्वाचन आयोग एसद्वारा उक्त श्री अतराम माशांती दोन, 

that. Shri K . Nedunchezian, 180- Nagarasampettal Post, Tairu 

cheri ( Via ) Kumbakonam Taluk, Thanjavur District. ( Tarail 
को संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान -सभा nadu ), a contesting canddidate for the general election to the 
अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस 

Tamil Nadu Legislative Assemebly held in 1971 from 172 

Valangimam constituency , las failed to lodge 
आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित an account of his election expenses in the manner 
करता है । 

required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 

the Rules made thereunder; 
[ सं . महा-वि . स . / 143/ 72 / ( 13) 7 

And wherca , after considering the representation made by 

the said candidate , the Election Commission is further satis 
ए . एन . सेन, सचिव fied that he has no good reason or justification for the 

failure ; 
ORDER 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 

Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
New Delhi, the 30th March. 1973 

K . Nedunchezian to be disqualificd for being chosen 

as, and for being, a member of either Houso of Parliament 
s. o . 1236 . - Whercas the Election Commission is satisfied 

or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
that Shri Atram Maroti Donu, At & Post Vyahad Khurd. 

State for a period of three years from the date of this 
Tah , Chandrapur , District Chandrapur, Maharashtra , a con 

order . 
testing candidate for the election held in March, 1972 to the 
Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from 145- Şaoli Constituency, 

[ No. IN-LA/ 172 / 71( 48 )] 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , and 

आवंश 
the Rules made thereunder ; 

का . आ . 1288 . यत: नितिन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है। 
And whereas the said candidate , even after duc notices, 
has not given any reason or oxplanation for the failure and कि मार्च, 1972 में हए महाराष्ट्र विधान सभा के लिए साधारण 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 

निर्वाचन के लिए 248-जाली निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले 
reason or justification for such failuie ; 


SEC. 3 (ii) j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15, 1895 

1711 
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - 
उम्मीदवार श्री . पाटकर मधुकर कृष्ण , म . व पो . आ . अनेवाडी, सालक अस : अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 107 के अनमरण में 
जौली, जिला सतारा (महाराष्ट्र ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम . निर्वाचन आयोग एस्तक्ष्वारा उक्स श्री सूर्यवंशी हनमंत 4जीनाथ 
1951 तथा सधीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित अपने को संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी संखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस 

आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निहित 

घोषित करता है । 
और, यत : उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी 

[ सं . महा.- वि . स ./ 192 / 72 (17) ] 
अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं 
दिया है , और निर्वासन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि 

ORDER 
उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायाँ 

New Delhi, the 10th April, 1973 
चित्य नहीं है । 

S . O , 1239 . - _ Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Suryawanshi Hannant Vaijinath , Zinganapra , Galli 

Sidharth . Colony Latur , District Osmanabad (Maharashtra ) , 
अतः अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण में 

a contesting candidate for the general election held in March . 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतत्त्वारा उक्त श्री पाटकर मधुकर कृष्ण 1972, to the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from 192 
को संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा 

Latur constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his 

election expenses as required by the Representation of the 
अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य धूने जाने और होने के लिए इस People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder ; 
आवंश की तारीख से सीन पर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित 

And whercas the said candidate , cvcn after die notices . 
करता है । 

hay not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 

reason oi justification for such failure ; 
[ सं . महा.-वि . सं ./ 248 / 12 (16 ) ] 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
ORDER 

Act, the Flection Commission hereby declares the said Shri 

Suryawanshi Hanmant Vaijinath to be disqualified for being 
S . O . 1238. - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied chosen as , and for being, a member of cither House of 
that Shri Patankar Madhukar Krishna, At and Post Anewadi, Parliament or of the Legisulative Assembly or I egislative 
Taluka Jaoli, District Satara (Maharashtra ) , a contesting Council of a State for a period of three years from the date 
candidate for the general election held in March , 1972 to the of this order . 
Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from 248 - Jaoli constituency , 
has failed to lodge an Account of his election expenses as 

INo. MT - LA / 192 / 72 (17) ] 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , and 
the Rulcs made thereunder ; 

आरा 


नई दिल्ली , 12 अप्रैल , 1973 


And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failurc and 
the Election Cominission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justiication for such failure ; 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declarc , the said Shri 
Palankar Madhukar Krishna to be disqualified for being chosen 
as , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order . 

[ No . MT - LA / 248 / 72 ( 16) ] 


आपेश 

नई दिल्ली, 10 अप्रैल , 1973 
फा . आ . 1239. - यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है 
कि मार्च, 1972 में हुए महाराष्ट्र विधान सभा के लिए साधारण निर्वाचन 
के लिए 192-सादर निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार 
श्री सूर्यवंशी हनमंत 4जीनाथ जिंगनाप्पा, गलीसिद्धार्थ, कालोनी लादर, 
जिला ओसमानाबाद , (महाराष्ट्र), लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा सधीन बनाए गए नियमों दयारा यथा अपेक्षित अपने 
निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे 


का . आ . 1240. --यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान 
हो गया कि मार्च, 1072 में हए गजरात विधान 
सभा के लिए निर्वाचन के लिए 33-मालिया निर्वाचन 
क्षेत्र गं सनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री जादल हमीर आशी 
सुधापाडा, पाया वेरावल , जिला जूनागढ़ (गुजरात ) . लोक प्रतिनिधित्व 
अधिनियम , 1951 तथा साधीन जनाए गए नियमों द्वारा यथा 
अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा पाखिल करने में 
असफल रहे है । 
__ और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीषवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने 
पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण 
नहीं दिया है , और, निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो 
गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण 
या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है : 
___ अतः अब , उक्त अधिर्धानयम की धारा 10- 2 के अनुसरण में 
निर्वाचन आयोग एततारा उक्त श्री जादव हमीर अर्शी को संसद 
के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान - सभा अथवा विधान 
परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख 
से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए निराईत घोषित करता है । 

सं . गुज-वि . स./ 33 / 72 (6) ] 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदयार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर 
भी, अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथना स्पष्टीकरण 
नहीं दिया है . और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया 
है कि उसके पारा इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या 
न्यायाचित्य नहीं है , 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 12th April , 1973 
S . O . 1240 . - -Whereas the Election Commission is Satisficd 
that Shri Jadev Hamir Arshi, Sutrapada, Via Veraval, Dist 
rict Junagadh , Gujarat, a contcating candidate for the general 
election held in March, 1972 , to the Gujarat Legislative 
Assembly from 33- Malia constituency, has failed to lodge an 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- . 


. 


. 


1712 ___ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

(PART II 

- -- - -- - - 
account of his election expenses , as icquired by the Ren 

आदेश 
resentation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder ; 

नई दिल्ली, 11 अप्रैल , 1973 
And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices . 
has not given any reason or explanillion for the failure and 

का . आ . 1242 . — यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया । 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure ; 

कि मार्च, 1971 में हुए तमिलनाह, विधान सभा के लिए साधारण निर्वा 

चन के लिए 98 रुटकमंड निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीद 
Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 

दार श्री डा . एम. बी . रमन , एम . बी . बी . एस ., 2-फारूक बिल्डिंग , चारिंग 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Jadav Hamir Arshi to be disqualified for being chosen as , and for कास , उटकमंड ( तमिलनाड ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 
being . A nember of either House of Parliament or of the 

तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन ध्ययों 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a state for a 
period of three years from the date of this order. 

का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं । 
[ No . GJ -LA/ 33 / 72 ( 6 ) ] 

___ और यत्तः, उक्त , उम्मीदवार ट्वारा दिए गये अभ्यावेदन पर विचार 
आपेश 

करने के पश्चात , निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि 

उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचिस्य 
नई दिल्ली , 18 अप्रैल , 1973 

नहीं है । 
फा . आ . 1241. – यसः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है 

___ अत : अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 क के अनुसरण में निर्षा 
कि मार्च, 1971 में हए तमिल नाड, विधान सभा के लिएनिर्वाचन 

चन आयोग एतल्यास उक्त श्री डा . एम . बी . रमन को संसद के किसी 

भी सद के या किसी राज्य की विधान-सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् के 
के लिए 109-वालपाराई निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार 

सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष 
श्री जी . सबमण्यम देवादास नाडार भवन , वालपाराई , जिला कोयम्बटर, 
तीमल नाड , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन 

की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित करता है । 
बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई 

[ सं . त . ना . वि . स ./ 08 / 71 (50) ] 
भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रह है ; 

ORDER 
और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर 

New Delhi, the 17th April , 1973 
भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण S . O . 1242. — Whereas the Election Commission is satis 
नहीं दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया है। fied that Dr. M . B . Raman, M . B. B . S., 2 - Farouk Buildings , 

Charing Cross, Ootacamund ( Tamil Nadu ) a contesting can 
कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्याया 

didate for the general election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative 
चित्य नहीं है , 

Assembly held in March , 1971 from 98 -Ootacamund consti 
tuency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 

as required by the Representation of the Peoplo Act, 1951, 
अत: अब , सक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 -क के अनसरण में and the Rules made thereunder ; 
निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्गारा उक्त श्री जी . ममण्यम And whercas , after considering the icpresentation made by 
को संसद के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य को विधान- सभा 

the said candidate , the Election Commission is further satis 

fied that he has no good rcason for justification for the 
अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस fuilure ; 
आदेश की तारीख रो तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिएनिरहित घोषित 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
करता है । 

Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said 

DI. M . B . Ramman to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
[ सं . त . ना ./ वि . स./109/ 71 ( 49) ] and for being, a meniber of cither Housç of Pailiainent or 

of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 

State for a period of three years from the date of this 
ORDER 

order . 
New Delhi , the 16th April , 1973 

[ No. TN- LA /98 /71( 50) ] 
S .O . 1241. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 

आदेश 
that Shri G . Subramaniam Devidoss Nadar Building, Val 
palai, Coimbatore Distt., Tamil Nadu, a contesting candidate 

ना बिल्ली, 19 अप्रैल, 1973 
for election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 
109 - Valparai constituency , held in March, 1971 has failed 

का . आ . 1243. - यत: निर्वाचम आयोग का समाधान हो गया है 
to lodge an account of his election expenses at all as 
icquired by the Representation of the Pcople Act, 1951 , and 

कि मार्च, 1972 में हुए आंधू प्रदेश विधान सभा के लिए साधारण 
tho Rules made thereurder ; 

निर्वाचन के लिए 237 - बांथ निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से पनाव लड़ने वाले 

उम्मीदवार श्री अरका रामाराव , कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी आफिस, बांध 
And whereas the said candidate , oven after the due notice , 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 

जिला अदिलाबाद ( आंधू प्रदेश) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
the Election Commission iş satisfied that ho has do good 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों दवारा अक्षिस रीति से 
reason or justification for such failure ; 

अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा पाखिल करने में असफल रहे , 
Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Ast, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri ___ और, यसः, उपस उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर 
u . Subramaniam to bc disqualified for being chosc 

भी , अपनी इस असफलता के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं 
29 , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a दिया है , और निर्वाचन आयोग का यह भी समाधान हो गया है कि 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 

उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण था न्याया 
pider . 

[ No. TN- LA / 109 / 71 ( 49 ) ] 

चित्य नहीं है , 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


SFC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1713 
- ---- - - - - - - -- -- - - - - --- - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

--- - - - - - - - - - - 
अतः अब , उक्स अधिनियम की धारा 10-क के अनुसरण में निर्वा Registration No . 408 / 1970 dated the 28th October, 1970 ) 

with the condition that the de - rogistration will be operative 
सन आयोग त्वारा उन्त श्री अरका रामाराव को संसद के किसी 

till the management of the undertaking remains with the 
भी सदन के या किसी राज्टा की विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद के Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India Ltd ., Calcutta , 
सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख में तीन वर्ष 

[ No. 22 / 8 / 72 - M (II)] 
की कालावधि के लिए निरीहत घोषित करता है । 
[ सं . आ . प्र.-वि . स . / 237/ 72 ] 

नई दिल्ली . 13 अप्रैल, 1973 
वी . नागसुषमण्यन . सचिव का . आ . 1246. - काधिकार एवं निबन्धनकारी व्यापार प्रथा अधि 
ORDER 

नियम , 1969 (1969 का 54 ) की धारा 28 की उपधारा (3 ) के अन, 

सरण में, केन्द्रीय सरकार सवार मैसर्स नेशनल रमद मैन्युफैक्चर्स 
New Delhi, the 19th April, 1973 

लिमिटेड के कथित अधिनियम के अन्तर्गत पंजीकरण (पंजीकरण 
s. o . 1243. Whereas the Election Commission is satis 

प्रमाण -पत्र संख्या 305/ 1970 दिनांक 28- 10-1970 के निरस्तीकरण 
ficd that Shri Arka Rama Rao , Communist Party Office , 
Boath , Adilabad Distt. ( A . P .), a contesting candidate for को अधिसूचित करती है । 
reneral election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly 
reld in March , 1972 from 237. Boath constilliency has failed 

[ सं . 22 / 21 / 73 -एम .- 2 ] 
10 lodge an account oť his election expenses in the manner 
required by the Representation of the people Act, 1951 , and 
tho Rules inade thereunder; 

सु . पालरामन , अपर सचिव 
And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or cxplanation for the failure and 

New Delhi , the 13th April , 1973 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 

S. O . 1246. ..--In pursuance of sub- section ( 3 ) of Bection 
reuson or justification for such failure ; 

26 of the Monopolics and Restirctive Trade Practices Act, 
Now. therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the sald 

1969 (54 of 1969 ) , the Central Government hereby notilies 
Act, thic Flection Commission heicby dcclares the said 

the cancellation of the registration of M / s NATIONAL 
Shri Aihat Rama Rao to be disqualified for being chosen as, 

RUBBER MANUFACTURERS LIT) . under the said Act. 
and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 

( Certificate of Registration No. 395 / 1970 dated the 
of the Legislative Assembly on Legislative Council of a State 

28 -10 -1970 ) , 
for a period of three years from the date of this oider . 

1F . No . 22 / 21 / 72- M (II ) ] 
___ [ No. AP-LA / 237 / 72 ] 

S . BALARAMAN, Under Secy . 
V . NAGASUBRAMANIAN , Secy. 

MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
CORRIGENDUM 

( Directorate of Gurdwara Elections ) 
New Delhi, the 26th April, 1973 

ORDER 
S . O . 1244. For the date " 10th Feb ., 1973 " ap 
pearing above the Commission s Orders Nos. AP-LA/ 245 / 72 

New Delhi, the 28th February, 1973 
und AP -LA / 249 / 72 published as S .O . 498 and 499 at pages 
712 and 713 of the Gazetic of India. Part II , Section 3(ii ) 

s. o . 1247. - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
dated 24-2 -1973, substitute the date " 10th January, 1973 ". 

section 6 of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1971 ( 82 of 

1971 ), I , U . S . Kohli, Director Gurdwara Elections hereby 
___ [ No . AP-LA/ 245 /721 make tho following amendments in the Table annexed to 
I. K . K . MENON, Under Secy . this Directorate s Order of even number dated the 29 - 12 - 1972 

and published on pages 163 to 181 of the Gazette of India 
Extra - ordinary (Part- II) dated the 15th January , 1973 , 

namely : 
विधि, न्याय और कम्पनी कार्य मंत्रालय 
( कम्पनी कार्य विभाग ) 

AMENDMENTS 
नई दिल्ली, 6 अप्रैल, 1973 

1. In the Table to the said Order , 
फा . आ . 1245. --एस्कोर कार एवं निर्षन्धनकारी व्यापार प्रथा (1) against Ward No. 11 for the words " Gwalior Pot 
अधिनियम , 1989 (1969 का 54 ) की धारा 26 की उप- धारा (3 ) 

terics apd the boundary of the NSW Delhi Munici 

pality and west of Nauroji Nagar " , the words 
के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकारए वारा मैसर्स कन्टेनर्स एण्सु 

" Gwalior Potteries with the boundary of the New 
क्लोजर्स लिमिटेड के कथित अधिनियम के अन्तर्गत पंजीकरण को 

Delhi Municipality on the west of Nauroji Nagar " ; 

shall be substituted ; 
इण्डस्ट्रीयल रिकंस्ट्रक्शन कारपोरेशन आफ इण्डिया लिमिटेड, 
कलकत्ता के साथ , सार्थ के प्रबन्ध को रहने तक अपंजीकरण 

( ii ) against Ward No . 14, for the words " running east 

wards along the said projection " , the words " run 
क्रियाशील होगा कि शर्त के साथ (पंजीकरण प्रमाण - पत्र संख्या 

ning eastward along the said line of projection " , 
408/ 1970 दिनांक 28-10-70) के निस्तीकरण को अधिसूचित 

shall be substituted ; 
करती है । 

(iii ) against Ward No . 31, for the words " thence west 

words along thọ Now Pusa Road upto its junction 
[ संख्या 22 / 8/ 72नाम .-2 ] 

the words " thence castwards along Gandhi Nagar 

___ Road - - Rajgarh Road ", shall be substituted : 
MINISTRY OF LAW , JUSTICE & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(iv ) against Ward No . 35 , for the words " Civil Line" , 
( Department of Company Affairs ) 

the words " Civil Lines" , shall be substituted ; and 
New Delhi , the 6th April , 1973 

( v ) against Ward No . 44, for the words "thence south 
S. O . 1245. - -In pursuance of sub-section ( 3 ) of section 26 

wards along the New Pusa Road upto it , junction 
of the Monopolics and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 

with Pusa Road at Patel Road ", the words "thence 
(54 of 1969 ), the Central Government hereby moulies the 

southwards along the New Pusa Rond upto its junc 
Cincellation of registration of M / S. CONTAINERS AND 

tion with Pusat Road at its crossing with Patel 
CLOSURES LIMITI D under the said Act ( Centiliate of 

Road ", shall be substituted . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - . 


- . 


1714 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART JI - -- 
- -- - -- - - - -- - -- -- --- - - - - -- -- - - - -- - -- - - -- - - - - - - 
2 . In Appendix 4 to the said Order , after item No. 47 , 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
the following item shall be added, namely: - . 
48. Madipur 

( Department of Revenue & Insurance ) 
49. Nangloi Saycd 

Now Dolhi, tho 9th April , 1973 
50. Nilothi 
51. Tilangpur 

S . 0 . 1248. - In pursuance of sub - rule (2 ) of rule 9 , 
52 . Ranhola 

clause ( b) of sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 and sub-rule (1 ) 
53. Shafipur. 

of rule 24 read with rule 34 ofthe Central Civil Services (Classi 
[ No . F. 1( 16 )/ 72 - DGE Amn.] 

fication , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, the President here 
U . S. KOHLI, Director 

hymakes the following further amendınents in the notification 

of Government of India , in the Ministry of Finance (Depart 
वित्त मंत्रालय 

ment of Revenue & Insurance ) No . S. R . O . 612, dared the 

28th February, 1957 , namcly : 
पाजस्थ पौर घोमा विभाग 

In the Schedule to the said notification : 
नई दिल्ली , 9 अप्रैल , 1973 

( a ) In Part II, General Central Service , Class III, after 
का० मा० 1248.- - केन्द्रीय मिविल सेवा (वर्गीकरण , नियन्त्रण तथा 

the existing entrics, the following heading and entries 

_ shall be inserted namcly : - - 
अपील ) नियमावली 1965 के नियम 34 के माघ पठित नियम 9 के उप 
नियम ( 2) , नियम 12 के उप नियम ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) तथा नियम 24 Description of Post Appoint- Authority conpc- Appellato 
में उप-नियम ( 1 ) के अनुसरण मे राष्ट्रपति , एतद्द्वारा , भारत सरकार 

ing Au - tent to impose Authority 
के विस मनानय ( राजस्व तथा बीमा विभाग ) की दिनांक 28 फरवरी, 

thority penalties and 
1957 की अधि - सूचना सं० मा० का० नि० 612 मे निम्नलिखित 

penalties which 

it inay impose 
अतिरिक्त संशोधन करते है , अर्थात् . -- 

(with reference to 
उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची मे : -- 

item numbers 

in rule 11) 
( क ) सामान्य केन्द्रीय सेवा श्रेणी III के भाग II में वर्तमाम 

Authority Penal 
प्रयिष्टियो के बाद निम्नलिखित शीर्ष तथा प्रविष्टियां अन्त 

ties 
स्थापित की जाय , अर्थात् . -. 

- - - - 

- - - - - 

- 1 
- - - - - 
- - - - - 

2 
- 

3 4 5 
पद का नाम नियुक्ति अधि - दण्डित करने के लिये सक्षम अपीलीय 

- - - - - 
फारी प्राधियारी तथा चे दण्ड जो प्राधिकारी 

" GENERAL INSURANCE SERVICES INTEGRATION 
नियम 11 में निहित मद 

COMMITTEE. 
संख्यायो के सन्दर्भ में लगाये 

All posts 

Member. Member - All Officer on 
जा सकते है । 

Secretary Secretary 

SpecialDu 

ty (Insur 
प्राधिकारी वण्ड 

ance ) and 

Additional 
. . - - - -- - - - - - 
1 

2 3 45 

Secretary to 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 

the Govern 
" सामान्य बीमा सेवा एकीकरण समिति । 

ment of 

India . 
सभी पद सदस्य सधिष मवस्य- सचिव सभी विशेष कार्य 

Under (1) to ( iv ) Member 
अधिकारी 

Secretary 

Secretary. " 
( बीमा ) सभा 
अतिरिक्त 

( b ) in Part III , General Services Class IV, after the existing 
सचिव , भारत 

entries , the following heading and ontries shall bo 
सरकार 

inserted namely : 
अवर सचिव ( i) से ( iv ) तक सवस्य मचिय " 

- - - - - - -- -- - --- - - . 

2 
( ख ) सामान्य केन्द्रीय सेवा, श्रेणी IV के भाग III में वर्तमान 

प्रविष्टियो के बाद निम्नलिखित शीर्ष तथा प्रविष्टिया अन्तः 
स्थापित की जाय अर्थात् - - 

" GENERAL INSURANCE 
- -- - . 

SERVICES INTEGRATION 
123 

COMMITTEE. 

All Posts 
" सामान्य बीमा सेवा एकीकरण समिति । 

Head of 

All 
Head of 

Member 
the Ofice the Ofice 

Secretary " 
सभी पद 

सवस्य- सचिव " 
कार्यालयाध्यक्ष कार्यालयाध्यक्ष सभी 
[ फा० सं० 33/ 10/ 72-प्रशा० - 1 ए . ] 

A .S . KRISHNAMURTHY , Under Secy , 
० एम० कृष्णमूर्ति , अवर गचिव 

[ F. No . 33 / 10/ 72 - Ad . IA] 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. . 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] __ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1715 

- - -.... - - - 
( किंग विभाग) 

ary , 1973 in respect of tho 24 - Parganas Southern Central 

Co -operative Bank Limited , namely :--- 
आवंश 

In the said Order , for the figurcs, letters and word " 30tn 

April , 1973 ", the figures, letters and word "30th June, 1973 " 
नई दिल्ली , 27 अप्रैल, 1973 

shall be substituted. 

INo. F . 8 / 3 / 72 - AC ] 
का . आ . 1249.-- बैंकिंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 ( 1949 

का . आ . 1231: - किंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 ( 1949 
का दसवां) की धारा 45 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के धारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का दसवां ) की धारा 45 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार, एतद्द्वारा 24-परगना नारदर्न 

का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार, एतद्द्वारा कलना कटवा 

संण्ट्रल कोआपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड के सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय 
संण्ट्रल कोआपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड के सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय 

सरकार वित्त मन्त्रालय, (बैंकिंग विभाग) के 27 जनवरी, 1973 के 
सरकार विस मन्त्रालय , ( बकिंग विभाग ) के 27 जनवरी , 1973 के 

ऋण शोधन स्थगन आदेश संख्या एफ , 8/ 3/ 72-ए. सी . में निम्न 
पण शोधन स्थगन आदेश संख्या एफ. 8/ 3 / 72-ए. सी . में निम्न लिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 
लिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : -- 

उक्त आदेश में अंक, अक्षर और शब्द "30 अप्रैल, 1973 " के 

स्थान पर अंक , अक्षर और शब्द "30 जून , 1973 " लिखे जाएंगे । 
उक्स आदेश में अंक , अक्षर और शब्द "30 अप्रैल , 1973 " के 
स्थान पर अंक , अक्षर और शब्द "30 जून , 1973 " लिखे जाएंगे । 

[सं . एफ . 8/ 3/ 72-ए. सी. 

ORDER 
[ सं . एफ 8/ 3/ 72-ए. सी. ? 

S. O. 1251. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 

section ( 2 ) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act , 
(Department of Banking) 

1949 ( 10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby makes 
ORDER 

the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of 
New Delhi, the 27th April, 1973 

the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart 
S. O . 1249.- - In exercise of the power conferred by sub 

ment of Banking ) No . F . 8 / 3 / 72-AC , dated the 27th Janu 

ary , 1973 in respect of the Kalna- Katwa Central Co- operative 
section (2) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 

Bank Limited , namely : 
1949 ( 10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of In the said Order, for figures, letters and word "30th April, 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart 1973 ", the figures, letters and word "30th June, 1973 " shall 
inent of Banking) No . F . 8 / 3 / 72 - AC, dated the 27th Janu be substituted . 
ary, 1973 in respect of the 24 -Parganas Northern Central 

[ No. F . 8 / 3 / 72- AC] 
Co - operative Bank Limited , namely : 

आदेश 
In the said Order , for figures , letters and word "30th April , 
1973 ", the figures, letters and word " 30th June , 1973 " shall 

का . आ . 1232. - किंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 ( 1949 
be substituted. 

का दसवां ) की धारा 45 की उपधारा ( 2) के घारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
[ No . F. 8 / 3 / 72- AC] 

का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार, एतयारा कच-बिहार 

सैण्ट्रल कोआपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड , के सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय 
आदेश 

सरकार वित्त मन्त्रालय , (बैंकिंग विभाग ) के 27 जनवरी, 1973 के 
का . आ . 1250:-- किंग विनियमन अधिनियम , 1949 (1949 ऋण शोधन स्थगन आदेश संख्या एफ . 8/ 3 /72-ए. सी . में निम्न 
का दसवां ) की धारा 45 की उपधारा ( 2) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 

लिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : -- 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार, एतद्वारा 24-परगना सदर्न 

उक्त आदेश में अंक , अक्षर और शब्द " 30 अप्रैल, 1973 " के 

स्थान पर अंक, अक्षर और शब्द "30 जून , 1973 " लिखे जाएंगे । 
सैण्ट्रल कोआपरेटिव बैंक लिमिटेड के सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार वित्त मन्त्रालय, (बैंकिंग विभाग ) के 27 जनवरी, 1973 के 

[ सं . एफ . 8 / 3/ 72-ए. सी ., 
ऋण शोधन स्थगन आदेश संख्या एफ. 8/ 3/ 72-ए. सी . में निम्न 

एल . डी . कटारिया, उप -सचिव 
लिखिप्त संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 

ORDER 

S. O . 1252. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
उक्त आदेश में अंक, अक्षर और शब्द " 30 अप्रैल, 1973 " के 

section (2 ) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
स्थान पर अंक, अक्षर और शब्द 30 जून , 1973 " लिखे जाएंगे । 1949 ( 10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby makes 

the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of 
[ सं , एफ 8 / 3 / 72-ए. सी .] the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart 

ment of Banking) No. F . 8/ 3 / 72- AC , dated the 27th Janu 
ORDIER 

ary , 1973 , in respect of the Cooch -Behar Cential Co- ope 
S. O . 1250.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 

rative Bank Limited , namely : 
section (2 ) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act , ___ In the said Order , for ligures , letters and word "30th April, 
1949 (10 of 1949 ), the Central Government hereby makes 1973 ", the figures, letters and word " 30th June, 1973 " shall 
the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of be substituted . 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Fiuance (Depart 

INo. F. 8 / 3 / 72 - AC ] 
ment of Banking ) No . F . 8 / 3 / 72-AC , dated the 27th Janu 

I.. D . KATARIA , Dy. Secy. 


lowing 10 ), the Center the Banking 


40min 
e con 45 contral 
Goveder 
of 


_ _ - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- -- - - - 


- - - - - - - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


__ 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


1716 THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973/ VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II . 
रिजर्व बैंक ऑफ इंडिया 

नई दिल्ली , 21 अप्रैल , 1973 
कामा0 12 53 रिस बैक प्रॉफ इंडिया अधिनियम , 1934 के अनुगरण में अप्रैल 1973 की 13 तारीख को समाप्त हुए सप्ताह के लिए लेखा 

इशू विभाग 
- " देयताए - - - - रुपये - - -- 

- रुपये 

प्रास्तिया 


रुपये 


रुपये 


on 


___ ..... . . . .. ...... _ _ _ _ _ _ 


मिग विभाग मे रखे 
हुए नोट . 


- 
12, 83, 24, 000 


. 


संचलन में नोट 


. 


5518, 85, 63, 000 


सोने का सिक्का और 

मलियन : 
( क ) भारत में रखा गुमा 

182, 53, 11, 000 
( ख ) भारत के बाहर रखाइमा 
विदेशी प्रतिभूनियां 

171, 65, 38, 000 
जोर 
5531, 68, 87, 000 रुपये का सिक्का 

भारत सरकार का रुपया प्रतिभूनियां 
देशी विनिमय बिल पौर दूसरे 

वाणिज्य -पत्र 
55 3 1, 68, 87,000 कुल प्रास्तियां 


जारी किये गये फुप नोट 


354, 18, 49, 000 

3 , 15, 07, 000 
5174, 35, 31, 000 


5531, 68, 87, 000 


फुल देयताए 
तारीख : 18 अप्रैल 1973 


-- -- 


एस० जगन्नाथन , गवर्नर 
13 अप्रैल 1973 को रिजर्व बैंक ऑफ इंडिया के बैकिग विभाग के कार्यकलाप का विवरण 
रुपये प्रास्तिर्या 

रुपये 
- - 

- - - - --- -- -- - - - -- 


देयताए 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


3 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


पकता पनी 5 , 00, 00, 000 नोट 

12, 83, 24, 000 
पारक्षित निधि 150, 00, 00, 000 रुपये का सिक्का 

3, 54,000 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 

छोटा सिक्का 

3, 53. 000 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि 209, 00, 00, 000 खरीदे और भूनाये गये बिल 

28, 01, 45 , 000 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 

( क ) देशी 

28, 01, 45, 000 
(स्थिरीकरण ) निधि . 

45, 00, 00, 000 ( ख ) विदेशी 
राष्ट्रीय पौरोगिक ऋण . 

( ग ) मरकारी खजाना विस 

224, 02, 44, 000 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि 175, 00, 00, 000 विदेशों में रखा मा बकाया 

210, 32, 39 , 000 
जमाराशियो : 

निवेश * * 

388, 19, 33, 000 
( क ) सरकारी 

ऋण और अग्रिम : 
( i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार . 

57, 29, 84, 000 (i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार को 
( ii ) राज्य सरकारें 13, 74, 62, 000 ( ii ) राज्य सरकारों को 

98, 95, 92, 000 

ऋण और अग्रिम :-- 
( i) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य 

अनुसूचित वाणिज्य 
बैक . 

284, 07, 79, 000 बैंको को 

33, 65, 00, 000 
(ii) अनुसूचित राज्य 

(ii) राज्य सहकारी 
महकारी बैंक 

14, 55, 95, 000 बैंको को ( @ 

236, 31 ,68, 000 
(ii) गैर अनुसूचित 

( iii ) दूसरो को 

4, 66, 97 , 000 
राज्य सहकारी बैंक . 

1, 09, 38, 000 राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (दीर्घ 
( iv ) अन्य बैंक 

31, 62, 000 कालीन क्रियाए ) निधि से 

ऋण, अग्रिम और निवेश 
( क ) ऋण और अग्रिम : 
( i ) राज्य सरकारों को 

65, 52, 44, 000 
( ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को 

21, 56, 06, 000 
( iii ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबन्धफ बैंको को 
( iv ) कृषि पुवित्त निगम को 

29,70, 00, 000 
( ग ) अन्य 79, 13, 81,000 ( ख ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबन्धक बैको 

11, 24, 73, 000 
के उिचरो में निवेश 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरी 

करण ) निधि से ऋण और अग्रिम 
देय मिल 71, 12, 54, 000 राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को ऋण और अग्रिम 

27, 21, 14, 000 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घ 

कालीन त्रियाए ) निधि 
अन्य देयताएं 

433, 72, 09, 000 मे ऋण, अग्रिम प्रौर निवेश 
( क ) विकास बैंक को ऋण और अग्रिम 

95, 09, 36, 000 
( ग्य ) विकास बैंक द्वारा जारी किये 

गये बांडों /डिबेंचरों में निवेण 
अन्य प्रास्तिो 

53, 66, 42, 000 
रुपये 1541, 07, 64, 000 

1541 ,07, 64,000 
* नकदी, प्रावधिक जमा और अल्पकालीन प्रतिभूतियां शामिल है । 
* राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (दीर्घकालीम त्रियाएं ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण (वीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि में से किये गये निवेश शामिल नहीं है । 

+ राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (दीर्घकालीन क्रियाए ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण प्रौर अग्रिम शामिल नहीं है , परन्तु राज्य सरकारो को दिये गये अस्थायी प्रोवराफ्ट शामिल है । 
+ + रिजर्य में क मा इपिया अधिनियम की धारा 17( 4 ) ( ग ) के अधीन अनुचित वाणिज्य को को मीयादी बिलो पर अग्रिम दिये गये 9, 17, 50, 000 रुपये 
___ शामिल । 

त. राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाए ) निधि पौर राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से प्रदस ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नही है । 
सारीख : 18 अप्रैल 1973 

एम० अगनाथन , गपनर 
[सं० फ०1 ( 1 ) 73 बी० मो०मा० ] 

च० न० मीरचन्दानी , अपर सचिव 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1717 


Vur 


- 


- - - 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

Now Dolhi, tho 21st April, 1973 
S , Q . 1233 — An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 13th day of April 1973 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


re 


re 


Liabilitios 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


Rs. 


- 


- 


- 


Notes held in the Banking De 

partment 
Notos in circulation : 


12 , 83 , 24 , 000 
5518,85, 63, 000 


Gold Coin and Bullion : 
(a ) Held in India 
(b ) Held outside India 


. 


182,53, 11 000 


Total Notes issued . . 

5531,68,87,000 Foreign Securities . . 171,65, 38 ,000 
TOTAL 

354 , 18 , 49 , 000 
Rupoo Coin 

3 , 15,07,000 
Government of India Rupee 
Securities 

5174 ,35,31,000 
Internal Bills of Exchange and 

other commercial paper . 
Total Liabilities 5531,68,87,000 Total Assets 

5531,68 ,87,000 
Dated the 18th day of April, 1973 

S. JAGANNATHAN , Governor 
Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , Banking Departient as on the 13th April 1973 
Liabilities 

Assots 

Rs. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


Rs. 


N 


- - 


- 


- 


Capital Paid Up , , , , , , 5,00 , 00 , 000 Notos 

12 , 83 , 24 , 000 
Rupoo Coin , 

3 , 54 , 000 
Roserve Fund 

Small Coin 

3 ,53 ,000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opera 

(a ) Internal 

28,01,45 ,000 
tions) Fund 

209 ,00 ,00 , 000 (b ) External 
( c) Government Treasury Bills 

224 ,02 ,44 ,000 
National Agricultural Cralit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 45,00 ,00,000 Balances Held Abroad * 

210 , 32 , 39, 000 
Investments * , 

388, 19 ,33 ,000 

Loans and Advancos to : 
National Industrial Crodit (Long Torm Operations) 

0 Contral Governmont 
Fund . . . . . . . 175 ,00 , 00 , 000 (ii) State Governmonts @ . 

98,95,92 ,000 

Loans and Advances to : 
Deposits :-- . . . . . . . 

( ) Schodulod Commercial Bankst 

33 ,6 $ , 00 ,000 
(ii ) Stato Co -operativo Banksi 

236 , 31 ,68 , 000 
(a ) Governmont 

(iii) Others 

4,66 ,97,000 

Loans, Advances and Inyostments from National 
(1) Contral Government . . . . 57, 29 ,84 ,000 Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) 
(tl) State Governments . . . . 13 , 74 ,62,000 Fund 

(a ) Loans and Advancos to : 
(1) Stato Governments 

65, 52,44 ,000 
(b ) Banks 

( ii ) Stato Co - operative Banks 

21, 58 ,06 ,000 

lii) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
(i) Schodulod Commercial Banks , 284,07,79, 000 (iv ) Agricultural Refinance Corporation . 29,70,00,000 

(b ) Investment in Central Land Mortgago Bank 
(ii) Scheduled State Co -operativo Banks 14,55 ,95,000 Debenturos 

11,24,73 ,000 
( iii) Non -Schoduled State Co- operative Banks 109 ,38 ,000 Loans and Advancos from National Agricultural 
(iv ) Other Banks . . . . . 

31, 62 , 000 Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund 

Loans and Advancos to Stato Co- oporative 
Banks . . 

27,21, 14 ,000 

to from National 
Loans Advances and Investmonts from National 

Industrial Crodit (Long Term Operations) Fund 
( c ) Othors . . . . . . 79, 13 ,81, 000 (a ) Loads and Advances to the Development 
Bank 

95,09 ,36 ,000 
(b ) Investment in Bonds/dobenturon jsued by 

the Development Bank . . . . 
Bilis Payable . . . . . . 71, 12 ,54, 000 
Other Liabilities . . . . . . 4 ,33,72 ,09 ,000 Other Assots 

53,66 ,42 ,000 
Rupees 1541, 07 ,64 ,000 

Rupecs 

1541,07,64,000 
* Includos Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities , 
* * Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Crodit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit 

(Long Term Operations) Fund . 
@ Excluding Loans and Advancos from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Torin Operations) Fund, but including temporary 
overdrafts to State Govornments . 
Includes Rs. 9, 17,50 ,000 advanced to schedulod commercial banks against ueance bills under Section 17 (4 ) (c) of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 
Excluding Loans and Advancos from tho National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Oporations) Fund and the National Agricultural 
Crodit (Stabilisation ) Fund , 
Dated the 18th day of April 1973 , 

S . JAGANNATHAN , Governor 

INO, F1(1)/73 - BOI 

C .W . MIRCHANDANI, Under Socrotary 
11 G of I / 73 – 4 


1718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[ PART II — 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- .. . 


- . 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE 


Poona , the 22nd September, 1970 

CENTRAL EXCISES 


S , O . 1255, In exercise of the powers conferred on me under 
Rule 185 ( 2 ) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 ( Chapter VII - A ), 
I hereby prescribe the overtime fees for the Central Excise 
Officers mentioned in column ( 1) of the Schedule below at the 
rates shown in the columns ( 2 ) to ( 7) for attending to oxamination 
and scaling of cxport goods at source , 


SCHEDULE 


Designation 

Officer 


of the Focs per hour or 

part those of 
on any 
working day 


Fcc per hour 
or part thercof 
on any Sunday 
or other holi 
day 


( Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 10th April , 1973 
S . O . 1254. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the pro 
viso to article 309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the 
Constitution and of all other powers enabling him in this 
behalf, the President, after consultation with the Comp 
troller and Auditor General of India in respect of persons 
cinployed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the General 
Provident Fund ( Central Services ) Rules , 1960 , namely : 

1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the General Provident 
Fund ( Central Services ) Fourth Amendment Rules, 19733 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publi. 
cation in the Official Gazette , 

2. In the General Provident Fund ( Central Services ) Rules , 
1960, in the Fifth Schedule, in paragraph 2 , after the entry 
"Senior Deputy Accountant General ( Admn.)/ Deputy Accoun 
tant General (Admn.), Commerce , Works and Miscellaneous , 
New Delhi ", the following entry shall be inserted , namely : 
" Additional Accountant General, Gujarat, Rajkot" 

[ No. 13( 8 ) - E . V .( B ) / 72 ] 
S . S . L . MALHOTRA , Under Secy . 
केन्द्रीय उत्पाशुल्क समाहर्तालय 

केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क 

पूना, 22 सितम्बर, 1970 
का० प्रा० 1255:--- केन्द्रीय उत्पादशुल्क नियम, 1944 (अध्याय 
VII-क ) के नियम 185( 2 ) के अधीन प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
इये मैं एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित अनुसूची के कालम ( I ) में उल्लिखित 
केन्द्रीय उत्पादशुल्क अधिकारियों के लिये , स्त्रोत पर निर्यात सामग्री के 
परीक्षण प्रौर मुहरबन्दी के काम के लिये कालम ( 2 ) से ( 7 ) में 
दिखलाई गई परों पर समयोपरि भत्ता विहित करता है । 

अनुसूची 
प्राधिकारी का कार्यदिवस के एक घंटे या उस किसी भी रविवार या छद्री । 
पद नाम के हिस्से के लिये फीस के अन्य विन एक पटे 

या उसके हिस्से के लिये फीस 


From From 8 P . M . From From 8 P . M 
6 AM to 6 AM 6 AM to 6 PM 
to 8 

to 8 
PM 


PM 


If the job 
during this 
period is 
far 


If the If the 
job job 
during dur 
this ing 
period this 
is for period 
less is for 
than 6 hrs . 
6 hrs or 
more more 


less 
than 
hrs . 


6 hrs 
or 
more 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


6 . 00 8 . 00 अपराह्न से 6 . 00 8 . 00 अपरा से 
पूर्वाहन से 6 . 00 पूर्वाह 6 . 00 पूर्वाह 
से पूर्याल तक से तक 

8 . 00 -- - - - - - - - - - - 8 . 00 -- - - - 
पपराह्नसक 

अपराल तक 
यदि इस यदि इम यपि इस यदि इस 
भवधि अवधि 

अधि प्रबधि 
में किया में किया में किया में किया 
गया कार्य 

गया कार्य गया कार्य किया गया 
छ: घंटों छ: पंटे . छ . घंटे फार्म छ: घटे 
से कम या उससे से कम या उससे 
समय का अधिक समय का अधिक 

है सयम का है है समय का है 
1 

2 3 4 5 6 7 
( 1 ) अधीक्षक 
केन्द्रीय उत्पाद 

शुल्क . 3 . 75 4 . 50 5 . 00 5 . 75 6 . 75 7 . 75 
( 2 ) निरीक्षक 

केन्द्रीय उत्पाद 

शुल्क . 2 . 50 3 . 00 3. 25 3 . 75 4 . 50 5 . 00 
( 3 ) उपनिरीक्षक 

केन्द्रीय उत्पाद 

शुल्क . . 1 . 50 1 . 75 2 . 00 2 . 25 2 . 75 3 . 00 
( 4 ) तुर्थ श्रेणी 

कर्मचारी 1 . 00 1 . 25 1 . 25 1 . 50 1 . 75 2 . 00 


1. Supdts. of C . Ex. 3. 75 4 .50 5. 00 5. 75 6. 75 7. 75 
2. Insprs. of C. Ex . 2 . 50 3. 00 3 . 25 3 . 75 4. 50 5 . 00 
3. Sub -Insprs . of 
C . Ex . 

1 . 50 1 . 75 2 . 00 2. 25 2 . 75 3. 00 
4. Class IV staff 1 . 00 1 .25 1 .25 1 . 50 1 . 75 2 . 00 
- - - . - - . 

[ No. CER 7/ 70] 
पूना, 12 अक्टूबर, 1970 
का . आ . 1258. केन्द्रीय उत्पादनशुल्क नियम , 1944 के नियम 
173 -ग (1) के अधीन प्रदस्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए मैं , 

एतद्वारा पूना केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क समाहर्तालय की 12 सितम्बर, 
___ 1968 की अधिसूचना सं . के . उ. नि . 7/ 88 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन 
करता : 

उक्स अधिसूचना में “ चार प्रतियों में फइल की जानेवाली 
मूल्यसूची " के स्थान पर "तीन प्रतियों में फाइल की जानेवाली 
__ मूल्यसूची " प्रतिस्थापित कर दिया जाय । 

[ सं . के उ. नि , 8/ 10 ( का , सं . वी . जी . एन . ( 30 ) 34 / तक -क / 70) ] 


Poona , the 12th October, 1970 
S. 0 . 1256. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me undor 
Rule 173 - C ( 1 ) of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 1 hereby 
make the followiny amendment in the Poona Central Excise 
Collectorate Notification No . CER/ 7 / 68 dated the 12th 
September , 1968 , namely : --- 
___ In the said Notification, for the words " Price List, which 
shall be filed in quadruplicate " the words " Price list, which 
shall be filed in triplicate " shall be substituted . 

(No . CER / 8 / 701 
[ F. No. VGN( 30 ) 34 /Tech. A / 70 ) ] 


[ सं . के . उ. नि . 7/ 10] 


SEC. 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1395 


1719 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- -- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


"18 उड़ीसा सरकार विश्लेषण प्रयोगशाला, जयपुर रोक जिला 
कटक) तथा जोडा (जिला कियोनझर ) " । 

[ सं . ( 5 ) / 72-नि . नि , तथा नि . सं .] 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 


पूना , 26 अक्तूबर , 1970 
फा० प्रा० 1237.-- केन्द्रीय उत्पादशुल्क नियम 1944 के 
नियम 5 के अधीन प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये मैं संसान सारणी 
के कालम 3 में निर्दिष्ट अधिकारी को कालम 2 में दिखलाये गये केन्द्रीय 
उत्पावशुल्क नियमों के अधीन , पूना केन्द्रीय उत्पावशुल्क समाहर्तालय के 
क्षेत्राधिकार में , समाहर्ता की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने का अधिकार वेता 
हूं । किन्तु वह ऐसा उक्त सारणी के फालम 4 में निविष्ट सीमानों के 
अन्दर ही करेंगे । 
क्रम संख्या केन्द्रीय उत्पाद - अधिकारी का वर्णा सीमायें यदि कोई हों 

शुल्क नियम 


New Delhi , the 5th May, 1973 


- - 


- 


S . O . 1258. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
tion 7 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection ) Act , 
1963 ( 22 of 1963 ), the Central Government hereby recogniscs 
for a period of one year the Government of Orissa Analyti. 
cal Laboratories at Jaipur Road (District Cuttack ) and Joda 
(District Keonjhar ), as the agency for the inspection of the 
Minerals and Ores - Group I, specified in schedule II annexed 
to the notification of the Government of India in the lato 

Ministry of Commerce , No . S . O . 3152 , dated the 30th Sep 
tember , 1965, and directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the said notification , namely : 


- 


- - - - - - 


म 


191क 


उपसमाहर्ता मन्युफायरिग फार्मूला 
केन्द्रीय उत्पावशुल्क , पूना को स्वीकृति प्रदान करने 

की शक्ति 


In the said notification , in Schedule I , after Serial No. 15 
and the cntry relating thereto , the following Serial No. shall 
be inserted, nancly :- - 


191 - ख 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- बही 
[सं० बी०जी०एन० ( 30 ) 80/टी०ए०/ 70] 
[ सं० के० उ० नि० 9/ 1970( फा० )] 

० म . लाल , समाहर्ता 


" 16. The Government of Orissu Analytical Laboratorles 

at Jaipur Road ( District Cuttack ) and Joda ( District 
Keonjhar )." 

INo . 5(5)/ 72- EI & EP ] 


Poona , the 26th October , 1970 


s . o . 1257 . - - In exercise of thepowers conferred on meunder 
rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , I empower the officer 
specified in column 3 of the subjoined Table to exercise within 
the jurisdiction of the Poona Central Excise Collectorate the 
powers of the Collector under the CentralExcise Rules enumera 
ted in Col. 2 there of subject to the limitation set out in col . 
4 of the said Table . 


Sl . 
No. 


Limitations , if any 


Central Ex - Rank of Officer 

cise Rule 
23 
-- 


का . आ . 1268 . -निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण) 
अधिनियम , 1983 (1963 का 22 ) की धारा । द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार विश्लेषण प्रयोगशाला, जयपुर 
रोड (जिला कटक ) तथा जोडा (जिला फियोनझर) भारत सरकार के 
भूसपूर्ष वाणिज्य मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं . का . आ . 3150 तारीख 
30 सितम्बर, 1965 में उपाषद्ध अनसूची 2 में विक्टि खनिज 
और अयस्क अप 2 के निरीक्षण के लिए अभिकरण के रूप में एक 
वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एसद्वारा मान्यता देती है और यह निवेश 
पेसी है कि उक्त अधिसूचना में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन किया 
जाएगा, अर्थात् : 

उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची 1 में कम संख्या 18 और उससे 
संबंधित प्रविष्टि के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित क्रम संख्या अंत: स्थापित 
की जाएगी, अर्थात् : 
"19 उड़ीसा सरकार विश्लेषण प्रयोगशाला, जयपुर रोड (जिला 
कटक ) तथा जोड़ा (जिला कियांनझर) " 

[ सं . 5 ( 5) / 72-नि . नि . तथा नि . सं .] 


" 4 


1 . 191 - A. 


2. 191 - B . 


Deputy Collector of Power for approval 

Central Excise , of manufactur 
Poona . 

ing formula. 
___ Do. 

Do. 
D .N . LAL , Collector, 

No. CER/ 9/1970 
[ F. No. VGN(30) 80 / TA/ 70] 


पाणिज्य मंमालप 
नई दिल्ली , 5 मई, 1973 


का . आ . 1258. -निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) 
अधिनियम , 1963 (1963 का 22 ) की धारा 7 द्वारा प्रपत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उड़ीसा सरकार विश्स 
पण प्रयोगशाला , जयपुर रोड (जिला फटक ) तथा जोडा (जिला 
कियोनझर) को , भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व पाणिज्य मंत्रालय की 
अधिसूचना सं . का . आ . 3152, तारीख 30 सितम्बर, 1965 से 
उपाबद्ध अनस 2 में विनिदिष्ट खनिज और अयस्क अप 1 के 
निरीक्षण के लिए अभिकरण के रूप में एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए 
एतद्द्वारा मान्यता देती है और यह निर्देश देती है कि उक्त अधि 
सूचना में निम्नलिखित और संशोधन किया जाएगा, अर्थात् : 


s . o . 1259 ....In, exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
tion 7 of the Export ( Quality Control and Inspection ) Act , 
1963 ( 22 of 1963 ), the Central Government hereby recognises 
for a period of one year the Government of Orissa Analyti 
cal Laboratorics at Jaipur Road (District Cuttack ) and Joda 
( District Keonjhar), as the agency for the inspection of the 

Minerals and Ores - Group II , specified in Schedule II annexed 
to the notification of the Government of India in the latç 

Ministry of Commerce No. S. O. 3150, dated the 30th Sep 
tember , 1965, and directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the said notification, nainely : - - 


In the said notification, in Schedule I, After Serial No. 18 
and the entry relating theroto , the following Serial No. shall 
bc inserted , famcly - 


उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची 1 में कम संख्या 13 और उससे 
संबंधित प्रविष्टि के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित क्रम संख्या अंत: स्थापित 
की जाएगी , अर्थात् : 


" 19 . The Government of Orissa Analytical Laboratories 

at Jaipur Road (District Cuttack ) and Joda ( District 
Kconjhar ). ". 

[ No. 5( 5 )/ 72 - E1 & EP ] 


1720 __ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II .-- 
. - - - - - - - - - - - - 

मावेश 

नई दिल्ली , 5 मई , 1973 
का० प्रा० 1260. - . - यतः भारत के निर्यात व्यापार के विकास के लिए विदेश व्यापार मंत्रालय की सुखाए हुए शार्क -पंच सबंधी अधिसूचना संख्या का०मा० 
5051, नारी 29 दिसापर, 1969 में संशोधन करने के लिए कतिपय प्रस्ताव, निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) नियम, 1964 के नियम 11 के 
उप-नियम ( 2 ) द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित भारत सरकार के विदेश व्यापार मंत्रालय की अधिसूममा सं० का०मा० 1385, तारीख 3 जून , 1972 के अधीन भारत 
के राजपन्न , भाग 2, खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड (II ) तारीख 3 जून , 1972 में प्रकाशित किए गए थे ; 

पीर यतः उनसे संभाव्यतः प्रभावित होने वाले सभी व्यक्तियों से 2 जुलाई 1972 तक प्राक्षेप तथा सुझाव मांगे गये थे ; 
और यतः उम्स राजपत्र की प्रतियां जनता को 3 जून , को उपलब्ध करा दी गई थीं ; 
और यतः उक्त प्रारूप पर जनता से प्राप्त पापों तथा सुझावों पर केन्द्रीय सरकार ने विचार कर लिया है । 

अतः अब , निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) अधिनियम , 1963 ( 1963 का 22 ) की धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त शमितयो का प्रयोग करते हुए , 
केन्द्रीय सरकार, यह राय होने पर कि भारत के निर्यात व्यापार के विकास के लिए ऐसा करना प्रावश्यक और समीचीन है, भारत सरकार के विदेश व्यापार 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना से०का०मा० 5054, तारीख 29 दिसम्बर, 1969 मे निम्नलिखित संशोधन एतद्द्वारा करती है , अर्थात् : -- 

उक्त अधिसूचना के उपाबंध में " क -सुखाए हुए शार्फ -पंखों के लिए विनिर्देश शीर्षक सथा इसके अन्तर्गत की प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित शीर्षक 
तथा प्रविष्टियां रखी जाएंगी , अर्थात् : 

उपाध 

" क - सुखाए ए शाम-पंच के लिए विनिवेश " 
प्रकार से० मी० की सम्पाई पर आधारित माप - भेणिया 

रंग 

साधारण लक्षण 
* पृष्ठीय, उवरीय पौर बक्षीय पंख * * पुंछ पंख 


- 


- 


- 


- 


गंध 


2 

श्रेणी 
क - 30 सें . मी . से कम 


( I ) सफेद श्रेणी 
( II ) काला क 20 सें . मी . से कम 

ख - 200 ० मी०मौर 

30से ०मी०से कम 
ग- 300०मी० पौर 

उससे ऊपर 


जाति का 
विशिष्ट 
सफेव , 
काला 


ख - 30से ०मी० 
पौर 40सें . 
मी०से कम 
4- 40 से० मी० 

पौर उससे ऊपर 


सूखे मास 
की विशिष्ट 
गंध ,किन्तु 
किसी 
दुर्गन्ध से 
मुक्त 


या 


पकत्तेपार 
रंग 


सुखाए हुए शार्क पख ताजा शार्क से तैयार 
किए जाएंगे । सामग्री ठीक से सुखाई 
गई होगी तथा फफूंदी, कीट तथा कुटकी 
माधा से मुक्त होगी । यह किसी वृष्य 
संदूषण से भी मुक्त होगी इस सामग्री के 
तैयार करने में भोज्य शार्कों के पृष्ठीय , 
उवरीय , पक्षीय और पुछ ( पूछ ) पंख 
प्रयुक्त किए जायेंगे । कटे सिरों पर 
अधिक वृश्य परजी नहीं होगी जब तक 
निर्यातकर्ता और विदेशी ऋता के 
बीच अन्यथा तय न हो तब तक पुग्छ 
( पूंछ ) पंख बिना रीढ़ की हड्डी के होंगे । 


- 


-- 


टिप्पण निकटतम उच्चतर और निम्नतर माप- श्रेणी या दोनों के तोल से 5 % - की गुंजाइश प्रमुज्ञात होगी । 

__ * * निकटतम उच्चतर और निम्नतर माप- श्रेणी या दोनों से 10% की गुंजाइश प्रनुज्ञात होगी । 
परिमासाएं :- (I ) "पंखों की लम्बाई " से सिरे के उपरि या प्रश्नकोण तक माप किए गए पंखों की लम्बाई अभिप्रेत होगी । 

(II ) निरीक्षण के प्रयोजन के लिए "सफेव " के अन्तर्गत पीताभ सफेद का और "काले के अन्तर्गत धूसर काला बफतेदार फिस्मो के सहित होगे । 
बक्षीय पंखों की दशा में पंखों के बाह्य या उपरि मोर के रंग का ध्यान रखा जाएगा । " 

[सं० 6 ( 18 )/ 71-नि०नि० तथा नि०सं ] 
ORDER 

Now Dolhi, tho 5th May , 1973 
S . Q . 1260 — Whercas for the dovolopmont of the export trado of India , certain proposals for amending the notification of the Go 
vernment of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trado No . S . O . 5054 dated the 29th December 1969 regarding dried shark fins, were published 
as required by sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality Controland Inspection ) Rules , 1964 , in the Gazelio of India , Part II, Soction 
3 , sub - section (ii), dated the 3rd June 1972 , undor tlio notification of the Government of India in thic Ministry of Foreign Trade S . O . 
1385 dated the 3rd Juno 1972 . 

And whoreas objections and suggestions were invited till the 2nd July , 1972 from all persons likely to be affected thereby ; 
And whoreas the copies of tho said Gazetto was made available to the public on the 3rd Junc 1972 . 

And whereas the objections and suggestions received from the public on the said draft have been considered by the Central Go 
vernment ; 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection ) Act, 1963 ( 22 of 
1963) the CentralGovernmont being of the opinion that it is necessary and expediont so to do for the development of export trado of India , 
hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade No. S . O . 5054 
dated the 29th December 1969 , namely : 


- - - 


SEC . 3 (ii ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1995 

1721 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - -- 
In tho Annexuro to the said notification , for the heading " A . Specification for Dried Shark Fins " and the entries thereundor , the 
following heading and entries shall be substituted , namely : 

ANNEXURE 
" A. Specifications for Dried Shark Fins 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Şizo grades based on length in Cns 
Types 

- Colour 

Odour 

General characteristics 
* Dorsal, Vontral Caudal Fins * * 
and pectoral fins 

- - - 
- 

- - 
3 

- 
(i ) White Grade Grado 

Characteristic Characteristic Dried shark fins shall be prepared 
(ii) Black A : Below 20 cmn A : Below 30 cm White Black or Odour of dried from fresh shark . The material 

B : 20 cnm and B : 30 cm and Spotted colour meat, but shall be shall be properly dried and free 

below 30 cm below 40 cm of tho species free from any off from fungal, insect and mito in 
C : 30 cm and C : 40 cm and 

odour 

festation . It shall also be free 
above above 

from any visiblo contamination , 
In the preparation of this material, 
the dorsal, ventral, pectoral and 
caudal (tail ) fins of edible sharks 
shall be used . There shall be no 
excess visible flosh on the cut -ends. 
The caudal (tall ) fins shall bo without 
back bone unless otherwise agreed 
to between the exportor and the 
foroign buyer. 


- 


- 


Note. A tolerance of 5 % by woight of the next higher or lower size grade or both shall be permitted. 

___ * * A tolerance of 10 % by weight of the next higher or lower grade of both shall be permitted . 
Dcinitions : (i) “ Length of fins* shall mean length of fins measured from tip to upper or anterior corner. 

(ii) For tho purpose of inspection , " white " shall include yollowish white, and " black " shall includo groyish black including 

the spotted varietios . In the case of pectoral fins , colour of the outer or upper sido of the fins shall be taken into consi 
deration. " 

[ No . 6(18)/ 71 - LIKEP ] 

मादेश 
का मा० 1261 -- यतः भारत के निर्यात म्यापार के विकास के लिये भारत सरकार के विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय की सूखी मछली 
सम्बन्धी अधिसूचना स० का० मा० 2137, ता . 5 जून, 1970 के सशोधन करने के लिये कतिपय प्रस्ताव निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियत्रण और निरीक्षण ) नियम , 
1964 के नियम 11 के उप नियम ( 2) द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित भारत सरकार के विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय की अधिसूचना स० का० प्रा० 2532, तारीख १ 
सिप्तम्बर , 1972 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपत्र, भाग 2 खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड ( ii ), तारीख 9 सितम्बर, 1972 में प्रकाशित किये गये थे । 

और यत . उनसे सभाव्यता प्रभावित होने वाले व्यक्तियो से 9 असूबर , 1972 तक भाक्षेप मथा सुनाव मागे गये थे । 
पौर यतः उक्त राजपन की प्रतियां जनता को 9 सितम्बर, 1972 को उपलब्ध करा दी गई थी ; 
और यत: उक्त प्रारूप पर जनता से प्रान आक्षेपों तथा सुझावों पर केन्द्रीय सरकार ने विचार कर लिया है ; 

मत : अब, निर्यात ( क्वालिटी नियंत्रण और निरीक्षण ) अधिनियम , 1963 ( 1963 का 22 ) को धारा 6 द्वारा प्रात शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , 
केन्द्रीय सरकार , निर्यात निरीक्षण परिषद से परामर्श करने के पश्चात् यह राय होने पर कि भारत के निर्यात व्यापार के विकास के लिये ऐसा करना भावश्यक 
मौर समीचीन है, भारत सरकार के विदेश व्यापार मन्त्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० का० मा० 2137, सारीख 5 जून, 1970 में निम्नलिखिन सशोधन करती 
है , अर्थात् : --- 

उक्त अनसूची में ,- - 
( 1 ) उपाबन्ध 1 में , " सुखी मछली को किस्में शीर्षक के अन्तर्गत , क्रम संख्या 36 तथा तत्सम्बन्धी प्रविष्टियो मे पश्चात् निम्नलिखित क्रम संख्याये 

तथा प्रविष्टिया जोड़ी जायेगी , अर्थात् .- -- 
" 37. सूखी नम्बई उक 
( हापोंडोम मेहरस ) 
38 मापट्टीकृत ( लेमिनेटेड ) बम्बई उक 

( हापीगेन मेहेरस) " 

( 2 ) उपासन्ध II मे , " सूजी मछली के लिये विनिर्देश शीर्षक के अन्तर्गत , श्रम स . 36 तथा उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियो के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित कम 
सम्माये तथा प्रनिष्टियां जोड़ी जायेंगी, अर्थात् : - - 

क्वालिटी के मानक 


- - 


- - - 


- - - - -- - - - 


क्रम स० किस्म 


आकार 


वैज्ञानिक नाम सभेप मे ससोधन की 
( जाति ) पनि 


गध 


सूखापन 


। 


1 - - 2 


छ 


- - 


- 


बाम पन्य टिप्पणिया 
पदार्थ 
9 10 

एसिड में अघुलन 
शील राख (प्रात 
हिप्तता के प्राधार 
पर अधिकतम 1 % 


- - 


-- 


- 


-- 


7 8 
विशिष्ट रग किसी किसी दुर्गन्ध भार के आधार 

प्रकार के गुलाबी से मुक्त विशिष्ट पर 20 % 
विवरण से मुक्त गध 

नमी अधिका 
तम 


37. सूखी बम्बई अमः हार्पोडन नेहे- धूप में सुनाई या कृत्रिम 

शुष्कका के अन्दर 
स्वास्थकर दशामा 
में सुखाई गई 


- - 


- 


. 


1722 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[ PART II 


10 


तम 


5 6 

7 

8 9 
38 मापट्टीकृत ( लेमि-हापोडन नेहेरस सिर पख तथा पूछ बड़ी 15 से० मी० विशिष्ट रग किसी किसी दुर्गन्ध भार के प्राधार - - एमिर में अघुलन 
नेटेड) बम्बई निकाल कर सूखी तथा अधिक छोटी प्रकार के गुलाबी से मुक्त पर 15% 

RITET TA ( TEFT 
उक मछली को उप - 15 सं० मी० से विवरण मे मुमत विशिष्ट गंध नमी अधिक 

रहितता के आधार 
युक्त दबा कर कम । 

Rafet 1% ) 
तैयार की गई, एक 
ममान प्राकार के 
टुकाई बनाने के 
लिए अगल-बगल से 

gta 551 
- - -- - - - - 

[ To 6 ( 19 )/ 71 foto foto per ft. ] 

CHO MTOTO WANTE, ar afar 


— 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


ORDER 
S .O . 1261. - Wlicreas, for the developinent of the export trade of India , certain proposals for amending the notification of the 
Governinent of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade , No. S . O .2137 , dated the 5th June , 1970 , regarding dried fish were published as re 
quired by sub -rule (2 ) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection ) Rules, 1964, in the Gazotto of India , Part II, Soction 3, Sub 
section ( ii ), dated the 9th September , 1972 under the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, No. S. O . 
2532 , dated the 9th September 1972 ; 

And whcroag objections and suggestions wore invited till the 9th October , 1972 from the persons likely to be effected thereby : 
And whereas the copies of the said Gazette were made available to the public on the 9th September , 1972 ; 

And whereas objections and suggestions received from the public on the said draft have been considered by the CentralGovern 
ment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of tho Export (Quality Control and Inspection ) Act , 1963 (22 of 
1963), the Central Government, after consulting tho Export Inspection Council, being of the opinion that it is necessary and expendiont so 
to do for the development of the export trade of India , hereby makes the following amendments to the notification of the Government so 
India in the Ministry of Forcign Trade, No. S . O , 2137, dated the 5th June , 1970 , namely : 

In the said notification --- 

(1) in Annexure I, under the leading " Varieties of dried Ash ” , aftor Serial No. 36 and the entries relating thereto , the following 
Serial Nos. and entries shall be added , nainoly : 

* 37 , Dired Bombay Duck 

(Harpodon nehereus ) 
38 . Laminated Bombay Duck 

(Harpodon nehereus )." ; 

(2) in Annexure II, under the heading " Specifications for dried Ash " , aftor SerialNo. 36 and the entries relating thereto, tho following 
Serial Nos , and entries shall be added , namely : 


Standards of quality 


Variety 


variety 


Şizo 


Smell 


Serial 
No. 


Scientific 


social 


Appearance 


Method of curo 

in brief 


Dryage 


Scientific 

namo 
( Specles) 


Other Remarks 


Foreign 
matter 


a les conclure size 
Methoden 
ITIIÏ 10 


- 


- 


- - 


1 


2 


10 


" 37 . Dried Bonbay Harpodon 
Duck 

nchereus 


Character - Moisturc 
istic flavour 20 % by 
free from weight, 
any rancid maximum 
odour 


Acid insolu 
ble ash (on 
moisture free 
basis , maxi 
mum 1 % ) . 


- do 


. do 


38 . Laminated 

Bombay Duck 


-do 


Sundried or 

Charactoristic 
dried in artifi 

colour 
cial drier under 

free 
hygicnic condi 

froni any 
tions 

pink dis 

colouration 
Prepared by Large 15 
suitable pressing cm , and 
of dried fishi , above , 
after removing Small-Less 
head, fins and than 15 
entails, sides cm . 
trimmed to get 
picccs of uni 
form size . 


Moisture 
15 % by 
weight , 
inaxliuin . 


Acid insoluble 
ash (on mois . 
turc free basis 
1 % maximum )" 


[No . 6 ( 19 ) /71-EI & EP ] 
M . K . B. BHATNAGAR , Under Secy . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15, 1895 

1723 
- - -- - - - -- - - - - --- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
( उप - मरणय निर्मभक , आयात -निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 

कारी की पमित के समतुल्य अधिकारी है, उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों 

के लिये मम्पवा अधिकारी नियुक्त नरती है , और उक्त अधिकारी उक्त 
( लोहा सभा इस्पात ) 

मारणी के स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट लोक परिसरों के सम्बन्ध में अपनी 
आदेश 

अधिकारिता की स्थानीय सीमा के भीतर उक्त अधिनियम द्वारा या उसके 
फरीदाबाद, . 1973 

अधीन सम्पदा अधिकारियों को प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करेगा और अधि 

रोपित कर्तन्यो का पालन करेगा । 
का . आ . 1262. - सर्वश्री वाटकिन्स मेयर एण्ड क. नेहरू गार्डन 

सारणी 
रोड, जलंधर को रूपया सीलिंग के अधीन 145 मी . द. हाई कार्यन 
स्टील शीट्स मद् के आयात के लिये 18 महीनों की वैधता के साथ अधिकारी का पदाभिधान 

लोक परिमरो के प्रवर्ग और अधि 
लाइसौंस अवधि अप्रैल --मार्च 72 के लिए 1,76,787 रू . मल्य का 

कारिता की स्थानीय सीमाये 
एक आयात लाइसेंस सं . पी./ ही / 8580988/ दी / ओ आर/ 41 / डी 

मुख्य प्रशासनिक और लेखा अधिकारी , महाराष्ट्र राज्य में जिला थाना 
33-34 दिनांक 6-12-71 प्रदान किया गया था । पार्टी ने लाहसंस 
( मद्रा विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति और सीमाशुल्क निकासी प्रति दोनों ) 

तारापुर परमाणु शक्ति स्टेशन , के पालघर और दाहानु ताप्लुको 
की अनुलिपियों के लिए इस आधार पर आवेदन किया है कि मूल 

डाक -घर सारापुर जिला थाना , मे तारापुर परमाणु शक्ति 
आयात लाइसेंस अस्थानस्थ हो गया है । पार्टी ने यह भी उल्लेख ( महाराष्ट्र ) 

स्टेशन के या उसके प्रबन्ध अधीन 
किया है कि मूल आयात लाइसेंस किसी भी सीमाशुल्क प्राधिकारी 

परिमर ( कार्यालय और निवास 
से पंजीकृत नहीं कराया गया था और उसका बिल्कल उपयोग 

सम्बन्धी ) 
नहीं किया गया था । इस तर्क के समर्थन में आवंदक ने एक 

[फा० सं० 13/ 2/ 73- ( एप० ) ] 
शपथ पत्र दाखिल किया है । 

तरलोक सिंह, अपर सचिव 
में संतुष्ट कि मूल आयात लाइसेंस सं . पो / डी / 8580988 
दिनांक 8-12-71 अस्थानस्थ हो गया है और निर्देश देता हूं कि 

DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 
( क्योकि इस मद का आयात अब एच . एस . एल के माध्यम से 

__ Bombay, the 10th April, 1973 

S . O . 1263 - - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
सरणीबद्ध किया गया है ) मूल लाइसेंस को रद्द करते हुए Section 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised 
आवेदक को पूर्ण मूल्य 1,78,787 रू. के लिये एक रिहाई आदेश 

Occupants ) Act, 1971 ( 40 of 1971 ), the Central Government 

hereby appoints the officer mentioned in column ( 1) of the 
जारी किया जाए । 

Table below being an oflicer equivalent to the rank of a gazetted 

officer of government to be the estate officer for the purposcs 
[ सं.पी ./ डब्ल्यू . 1/ ए. एम - 72 / ए. यू. एल.एम.ई / एल. सी -1/ टी. सी. एफ .] of the said Act, and the said officer shall exercise the powers 

conferred and perform the duties imposed on estate officers by 
के . एन . कपूर, उप -मख्य नियंत्रक 

or under the said Act, within the local limits of his jurisdic 

tion in respect of the public promises specified in column (2 ) 
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE 

of the said Table . 
( Office of the Dy. Chiek Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

TABLE 
( Iron and Steel) 

Designation of the Officer Categories of public premises 
CANCELLATION ORDER 

and local limits of jurisdic 

tion . 
Faridabad , the 1973, 
S. O . 1262 . - M / s, Watkins Mayor & Co., Nehru Gardens 

Chief Administrative and Premises (offico and residential 
Road , Jullundur City were granted an Import Licence No. 

Accounts Officer , Tarapur belonging to or under 
PDI8560988TOR| 41 | D / 33 - 34 dated 6 - 12- 71 for import of 

Atomic Power Station the management of the 
145 M / T of the item High Carbon Steel Sheets for Rs. 176 , 787 

P . O . Tarapur, Dist. Thana Tarapur Atomic Power 
under Rupee ceiling for the licensing period April - March , 72 

( Maharashtra ) 

Station in Palghar and 
with the validity of 18 months. The party have applied for 

Dahan Taluks , Dist. , 
duplicate copy of the licence ( both ECP & CCP Copies ) on 

Thana , Maharashtra State 
the ground that the original Import licence has been mis 
placed . The party have further stated that the original 

( File No.13/ 2/ 73- ( H )] 
Import licence was not registered with any customs authority 
and was not utilised at all . In support of this contention , the 

TARLOK SINGH , Under Secy 
applicant has filed an affidavit. 

पंद्रोलियम और रसायम मंबालप 
I am satisfied that the original Import licence No. P / D / 
8560988 dated 6 -12- 71 has been misplaced, and direct that 

(पैट्रोलियम विभाग ) 
( as tho import of the item has now been canalised through 
HŞL ) a Release Order be issued to the applicant for the full 

नई दिल्ली , 23 अप्रैल, 1973 
value of Rs. 1, 76,787 in cancellation of the original Import 
licence. 
No. PW - 1/AM -72 EXAU /LME-LC -IDCCF ) 

का . आ . 12G4. – यतः पतलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के आषांग 
___ K . N. KAPOOR, Dy Chief Controller . 

के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1982 ( 1962 का 50) की धारा 
3 की उपधारा (1) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और 

रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का . आ . सं 3963 दिनांक 31-10 -12 
परमाणु ऊर्जा विभाग 

द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में 
बम्बई , 10 अप्रैल , 1973 

चिदिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइपलाइनों को 

बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये अर्जित करने का अपना आशय घोषित 
का० प्रा० 126 3 - लोक परिसर ( अप्रधिकृत अधिभोगियों की बेदखली ) 
अधिनियम , 1971 ( 1971 का 40 ) की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रवत्त शक्तियों 

कर दिया था ; 
का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार , एतद्वारा , नीचे दी गई सारणी 

और थत: सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 
के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) में उल्लिखित अधिकारी को , जो सरकार के राजपत्रित अधि की उपधारा ( 1) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है : 


1 


-- 


- 


- 


481 


238 


237 


236 


234 


1724 THE GAZETTE. OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II - -- 

- - - - --- - - - - . . . - - - - - - 
__ और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub 

section ( 4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs 
पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनसूची में विनि पट भूगियों 

that the night oliser in the said lands shallinstead of 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का विनिश्चय किया है , vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 

publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
अब , अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) वारा 

Commission free from all encumbrances. 
प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा घोषित 

SCHEDULL 
करती है कि इस साधिसूचना से संलगन अनसनी में 

Pipeline from Woll No . 145 to O . G . S . VII ( Well No . 
विदिष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन बिछाने 

K .-144 ) 
के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है और, उस 

State : Gujarat 

Dist , & Taluka : Gandhi Nagar 
धारा की उपधारा (4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
बोन्द्रय सरकार देश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का Villago B lock No. 

Hectare Are P .Are 
अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय संल एवं प्राक 

TARAPUR . 238 
सिक गैस आयोग , में सभी बंधकों के मक्स रूप में , इस घोषणा 

237 
के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 

236 
234 

235 
अमसूची 

Survey No . 
अमां संख्या 1 45 से जी० जी० एम० VII ( कुप्रां मख्या के - 144 के मार्ग से ) 

UVARIAD 

857 / P + 858/ 1 
तक पाइप लार न 

V . P. Cart track 

938/ 3 
राज्य --- गुजरात जिला एवं सानुका ---गांधीनगर 

935 / 3 
- - 

- - 

D . L . B . Road 
गाव खण्ड स० हैक्टर ए . आर० पी०ए . 

934 / 3 

934 / 4 
ई० आर० ई . 

934/ 1 
नारापुर 07 76 

[ No. 11 / 2 / 72 -L & L ] 
0 1080 

क , आ . 1200 - यत : पैट्रलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उपर्वाग 
0 12 17 

के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 (1962 का 50) की धारा 
() 1550 ३ को उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और 
235 

( 366 रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का , आ . से , 3962 दिनांक 31 -10- 72 
सर्वेक्षण सं० 

दारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनसूची में 
उपरसद 857/ पी + 858/ 1 (0 1501 विदिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइपलाइनों को 
बी पी मार्ट ट्रैक 

0 1 77 बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये अर्जित करने का अपना आशय घोषित 
938 / 3 

0 1 00 कर दिया था , 
935/ 3 ( 830 

और यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 
डी एल बी रोष्ट 

0 2 93 

की उपधारा (1 ; के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दी है । 
934/ 3 

( 7 32 

____ और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोट पर विचार करने के 
9344 000 50 

पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विक्टि भूमियों 
934/ 1 

(0577 

में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का विनिश्चय किया है । 
___ [ सं 11/ 2/ 72 - लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 

अब , अत : उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 की उपधारा ( 1) यारा 
MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS प्रवृत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतवारा घोषित 
(Department of Petroleum ) 

करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विदिष्ट 
New Delhi, the 23rd April, 1973 

उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन बिछाने के 

प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है और उस धारा 
S . O . 1264. - Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals की उपधास ( 4 ) वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए 
( Department of Petroleum) S. O . No. 3963 dated 31 - 10 -1972 

पेन्द्रीय सरकार निर्देश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का 
under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय तल एवं प्राक 
1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to 

तिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बंधकों के मुक्त रूप में , इस घोषणा 
acquire tho Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 
laying pipelines ; 

अनुसूची 
And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act , submitted report to 

कुमो संख्या के - 144 से जी जी एस VII तक पाइपलान 
the Government; 

राज्य -गुजरात 

जिला तथा तालुका - गांधीनगर 
And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 

गांव सर्वेक्षण सं० 

हेसटर ए . आर० पी०ए० 
user in tho lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification ; 

ई . मार०० 
Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by 

उबरसद 926 

0491 
sub- section ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 

933 

0 1259 
said lands specificd in the schedulo appended to this potifica 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 

927 

0 26 36 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1725 


345 


0 13 37 
0 1095 


SCHEDULE 
Plpelino From Well No. K -144 To G .G . S . VII 
State : Gujarat ___ Distt . & Tal . : Gandhinagar 
Village 

Survey No. Hectarc Are P .Aro 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


0 


UVARSAD 


928 
917/ 5/ 6 
कार्ट ट्रेक 
963/ 1/ 1 
963 
966 / 2 
कार्ट ट्रैफ 
964/ 2 
965 
9801 
981/ 2 बी 
981 / 1 


11 35 
276 
381 
00 77 


00 


926 
933 
927 
928 
917/ 5 / 6 
Cart track 
963 / 1 / 1 
963 
966/ 2 
Cart Track 
964 / 2 


00 


50 


26 


१. 3 


thrum-88800-6585 


46 


26 23 

167 
____ 13 

2 
569 
7 27 


965 


40 


994 


985/ 3/ 2/ 2 
983/ 3/ 2/ 1 
993/ 4/ 2 
990 


13 
___48 


13 


13 


991 


वी पी कार्ट ट्रैक 
1087 
1086 
1085/ 1 
1084/ 1 
1084/ 2 
1081/ 3 
1082 


0 1341 
0 1388 
0 1 21 
06 29 
0 00 50 
0608 

3 20 
0 

11 
0808 
0 1868 
0 1 90 
0 100 
0 108 
0570 
0240 
03 72 


wor---5500.080- 


1000००---40NG 


72 


1076 
बी पी रोड 
1100 
1105 


08 


1104 


1107 


980 / 1 
981 / 2 / B 
981 / 1 
994 
985 / 3 / 2 / 2 
985 / 3/ 2 / 1 
993/ 4 / 2 
9900 
991 
V. P. Cart track 
1087 
1086 
1085/ 1 
1084 / 1 
1084 / 2 
1081 / 3 
1082 
1076 
1. P. Road 
1100 
1105 
1104 
1107 

[ No . 11 / 2/ 72-L & L ] 
का . आ . 1266. - यत: पंद्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उपयोग 
के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 (1962 का 50) की धारा 
3 की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और 
रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का . आ . सं . 3964 दिनांक 31 -10-72 
द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनसूची में 
विदिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइपलाइनों को 
बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये अर्जित करने का अपना आशय घोषित 
कर दिया था , 

और थत : सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 
की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है : 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोट पर विचार करने के 
पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विदिष्ट भूमियों 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का निश्चय किया है । 

अध , अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा (1) मारा 
प्रदस्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा घोषिता 
करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनसूची में विदिष्ट 
उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन बिछाने के 
प्रयोजन के लिए एतदद्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है और, उस धारा 
की उपधारा ( 4 ) दवारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार निर्देश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का 
अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय तेल तथा प्राकृ 
तिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बंधकों के मुक्स रूप में , इस घोषणा 
के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


- - - 


- - - 


[ सं . 11/ 2/ 72-लेबर एण्ड लजिस ] 
SO. 1265. - Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
(Department of Petroleum ) S . O . No. 3962 dated 31- 10 - 1972 
under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelincs 
{ Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 
1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquirc the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines ; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government ; 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report. decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specificd in the schedule appended to this 
notification ; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica 
tion hereby acquired for Jaying the pipelines ; 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub 
section (4 ) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands sball instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 
11 Gof I / 73 - 6. 


1726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[PART II -- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


. . 


अनुसूची 
श्री० एस० के ० -149 से जी जी एस VII ( कुप्रा सं ० के, 144 के मार्ग से ) 

सक पाइपलाइन 
राज्य: - - गुजरात 

जिला एवं ताल्लुका--- गांधीनगर 


SCHEDULE 
Pipeline From D.S. K -148 To G. G.S. VII ( VIA Well No. K144 ) 

State : Gujarat Distt. & Tal.: Gandhi Nagar 
Village Block No. Hectare Are P. Are 

- -- - - -- - -- - 
TARAPUR 

02 


गांव 


खंड सं० 


हैक्टर ए० आर० ई० पी० ए० 

प्रार० ई० 


. 195 


194 


सारापुर 


, 


185 
194 
193 


Evaocuöuneni 


196 


02 20 
00 50 
0507 

553 
1091 
5 19 
667 

073 
( 0 1153 

634 


187 


193 
196 
197 
198 
207 
V . P. Cart track 
211 
209 
210 
234 
V . P , Cart track 
Survey No. 
940 / 2 
939/ 4 
939/ 243 
938/ 4 
D . L . B . Road 
938/ 1 
935/ 3 
934/ 1 


UVARSAD . 


VACOUNCAN 


15 


0 
0 


1001 
1 71 


- - - - - - 


- - . .. - 


- 


198 
207 
बी पी फार्ट ट्रैक 
211 
209 
210 
234 
बी पी कार्ट ट्रेक 
सर्वेक्षण सं० 
940/ 2 
939/ 4 
939/ 2 + 3 
938/ 4 
ही एल बी रोड 
938/ 1 
935/ 3 
934/ 1 


[ No. 11 / 2 / 72- L & L ] 


उपरसद 


1 22 
484 
853 

250 
0506 
0850 
0459 
0781 


मई दिल्ली, 24 अप्रैल, 1978 
का . आ . 1267. – यतः पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइभ ( भूमि के उप 
योग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1982 ( 1982 का 50 ) 
की धारा 3 की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम 
और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का आ . सं . 3906, दिनांक 
14-11 - 72 बारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से गंलग्न 
अनसूची में विनिविष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप 
लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिय अर्जित करने का अपना 
आश्य घोषित कर दिया था , 


[ सं . 11/ 2/ 72 - लेवर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


S . O . 1266.--- Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
(Department of Petroleum ) S . O . No. 3964 dated 31 - 10 - 1972 
under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 1962 ( 50 of 
1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquirc the Right of Uşer in the lands Specificd in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines ; 


और यता सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 
की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है । 


And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 
scction ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act , submitted report to 
the Government ; 


__ और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के 
पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का चिनिश्चय किया है , 


And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering tho said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in thc schedule appended to this 
notification; 


Now therefore in cxercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section ( 1 ) of the Section 6 of the said Act , the Central 
Governinent hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said landa specificd in the schedule appended to this notifica 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 


अब , अत : उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा (1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा 
घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूशी में 
विनिर्दिष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन 
बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है और, 
उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार निर्देश देसी है कि उक्त भूमियों में 
उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय 
तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बन्धकों के मुक्त रूप में , 
इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub 
section ( 4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shat instcad of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances , 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


I NIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1727 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


अनुसूची 
कुप्रा सं0 157 से 44 से जी जी एस III तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : बरोच ताल्लक : अंकलेश्वर 
गाव सर्वेक्षण सं० 

हैक्टर ए प्रारई पीए 


- - 


- - 


- 


अडोल 


710/ 1 
710/ 2 
712/ 1 
712/ 2 
711 
669 
670 


195 
015 
03 25 
(03 25 
( 3 90 
03 25 
04 50 


מימר10 


लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये अर्जित करने का अपना 
आश्य घोषित कर दिया था , 

और यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 
की उपधारा ( 1) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है : 
___ और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के 
पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का विनिश्चय किया है , 

अब , अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा (1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एस्तक्ष्वारा 
घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन 
बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है और, 
उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में 
उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय 
तेल सथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बन्धकों के मुक्त रूप में , 
इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


[ संख्या 11 / 2 / 72 लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


New Delhi, the 24th April , 1973 


अनुसूची 


कुषां सं० 146 से 132 से जी सी एस III सक पाइपलाइन 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : बरौच ताल्लुका : अंकलेश्वर 
गांव सर्वेक्षण स० 

हैक्टर ए आर ई पी ए आर ई 
प्रकोल 623 

02 08 

0 1235 
[ संख्या 11 / 2 / 72 लेबर एण्ड लजिस ] 


प्रल 


624 
- - 


- - - -- - 


- - 


S. O . 1267. - Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
( Department of Petroleum ) S . O . No. 3906 dated 14-11-1972 
under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelincs 
( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 
1962 ), the Central Government declaied its intention to 
acquire thc Rintal of User in the lands specific in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the puropge of 
laying pipelines ; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Governinent; 

And further whercas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
liser in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now thçrefore in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hercby declares that the right of iser in the 
said lands specificd in the schedule appended to this notifica 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 

And further in cxercise of the power confcrred by sub 
section (4 ) of that Section , tho Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of tho 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all cncumbrances. 


- 


SCHEDULE 
Pipolino from Woll No. 157 to 44 to G .G .S . III 
State : Gujarat Dist . : Broach Tal. : Ankleshwar 
Village 

Survey No. Hoctare Are P . Are 


S . O . 1268 . - Whercas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
( Department of Petroleum) S . O . No. 3908 dated 14 - 11 - 1972 
under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 
1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines ; 

And whercas the Competent Authority has under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now therefore in exerciso of the powers conferred by 
sub -scction ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Governmcot hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specificd in the schedule appended to this notifica 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelinos ; 

And further in cxercisc of the power conferred by sub 
section ( 4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs 
that the right of luser in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encuinbranccs . 

SCHEDULE 
Pipeline from Woll No. 146 to 132 to G . G . S . JII 
State : Gujarat Dist . : Broach Tal. : Ankleshwar 
Village Survey No. 

Hectare Are P Are 
ADOL . . 623 

0 2 08 
0 1235 


ADOL 


. 


95 


710 / 1 
710/ 2 
712 / 1 
712 / 2 
711 
669 
670 


بیمهندانودان 


م 


[ No. 11 / 2/ 72-L & L] 
का , आ . 1268. - यतः पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उप 
योग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 (1982 का 50 ) 
की धारा 3 की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम 
और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का . आ . सं 3908, दिनांक 
14-11-72 दवारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न 
अनुसूची में विनिदिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप . 


624 


[ No . 11 / 2 / 72- L & L ] 


1728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


[ PART II 


का . आ . 1269 -- यतः, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उप 
योग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1982 ( 1962 का 50 ) 
की धारा 3 की उपधारा (1) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम 
और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का . आ . सं . 3905 दिनांक । 
14-11- 72 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार के उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न 
अनसूची में विनिविष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप 
लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये अर्जित करने का अपना 
आश्य घोषित कर दिया था , 


And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub 
section (4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said landy shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this dcclaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrancey . 

SCHEDULE 
Pipolino From Well No. 145 To 109 To G .G .S . XIV 

State : Gujarat Dist. : Broach Tal. : Ankloshwar 
Village Survey No . 

Hectare Are P. Are 
ADOL . . 305 / 1 

305/ 2 
304 
306 

58 


और यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है : 


[ No. 11 / 2 / 72-I & L ] 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के 
पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियो 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का विनिश्चय किया है , 


अ , अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा 
घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन 
बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है , और 
उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार निषेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में 
उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय 
तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बन्धकों के मुक्त रूप में , 
इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


अनुसूची 
कुप्रो सं० 1 45 से 109 से जी० जी० एस० IV तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : बरीच ताल्लुका : अकलेश्वर 
गांव सर्वेक्षण से 

हैक्टर ए . आर० पी० ए० 

ई० प्रार०६० 
अडोल 305/ 1 

02 28 
305 / 2 

0 2 27 
304 

0 1885 
0 18 


का . आ . 1270. – यसः पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उप 
योग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) 
की धारा 3 की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम 
और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का . आ . सं . 3907 दिनांक 
14-11-72 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न 
अनुसूची में विनिविष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप 
लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये अर्जित करने का अपना 
आशय घोषित कर दिया था , 
__ और यसः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 
की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दी है : 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के 
पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमि 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का विनिश्चय किया है , 

अब , अत : उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 की उपधारा (1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा 
बोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन 
बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्धारा अर्जित किया जाता है और, 
उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए केन्द्रीय सरकार निदेश वेती है कि उक्त भूमियों मैं 
उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाए 
तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बन्धकों के मुक्स रूप में , 
इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 

अनुसूची 
कुप्रा सख्या 182 से 162 से जी० पी० एस० ॥ तक पाइपलाइन 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : बरोच ताल्लुका : अंकलेश्वर 
सर्वेक्षण सं० 

हैक्टर एसार ई पीए 

आरई 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


306 


[ संख्या 11 / 2/ 72 लेबर एण्ड लजिस ] 


S. O . 1269 . - Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
( Department of Petrolcum) S. O . No. 3905 dated 14 - 11 - 1972 
under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 
1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines%B 


गोष 


. 


147 / 1 
147/ 2 
149 


10 


40 


And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the said Act , submitted report to 
the Government; 


[ संख्या 11 / 2/ 72 लेबर एण्ड लजिस ] 


And furthei whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification ; 


Now therefore in exercise of the rowers conferred by 
Sub -section ( 1 ) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 


s. o . 1270 . - Whereas by a notification of the Govt . of 
India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals ( Depart 
ment of Petroleum) S . O . No. 3907 dated 14- 11 - 1972 
under sub- Section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipe 
lines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 
of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire tho Right of User In the lands specified in the sche 
dulo appended to that notification for the purpose of laying 
pipelines , 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1729 


. - . 


- . - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub 
Section ( 1) of Section 6 of the said Act, submitted report 
to the Government , 


हए केन्द्रीय सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में 
उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय 
तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बन्धकों के मुक्त रूप में , 
इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification , 


प्रमुसूची 


डी० एम० डाबका 4 से फ्लेयर प्वाइंट तक पाइपलाइन 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : बरीच ताल्लुका : जम्बूसार 


Now therefor in exercise of the Power conferred by sub 
Section ( 1 ) of the Section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this noti 
fication hereby acquired for laying the pipelincs, 


- - - - - - 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण सं० 


हेक्टर ए . मार० ० पी० ए० 

पार० ई० 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


. 


541 


0 


31 


25 


And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub 
Section ( 4 ) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of ves 
ting in the Central Government vest on this date of the pub 
lication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas Com 
mission free from all encumbrances. 


[ संख्या 11 / 2/ 72 लेअर एगह लेजिस ] 

आर. एन . चोपड़ा , अपर सचिव 


SCHEDULE 
Pipolino From Well No. 182 to 162 To GGS II 
State : Gujarat Dist. : Broach Tal. : Ankleshwar 


- - - - - - - - 


. 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


Village 


Survey No. 


Hectare 


S. O. 1271 . -- Whereas by a notification of the Govt . of 
India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (Depart 
ment of Petroleum ) S . O . No. 3750 dated 30 . 8. 1972 under 
sub- Section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleunm Pipelines 
( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 1962 ( 50 of 
1962 ), the Central Government declared its intention to ac 
quire the Right of User in the lands spocificd in the schedule 
appended to the notification for the purpose of laying pipe 
lines, 


Are P. Are 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


SARTHAN 


0 


147 / 1 
147/ 2 
149 


0 


845 

45 
10 40 


0 


[ No . 11 / 2 / 72- L & LJ 


And whercas the Competent Authority has under sub 
Section ( 1 ) of Section 6 of the said Act, subinitted report 
to the Government , 


And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
ußer in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification, 


का . आ . 1271. - यतः पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उप 
योग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 (1962 का 50 ) 
की धारा 3 की उपधारा (1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम 
और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का . आ . सं . 3750 दिनांक 
30-8-72 सारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न 
अनुसूची में बिनिदिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप 
लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये अर्जित करने का अपना 
आश्य घोषित कर दिया था , 


Now therefore in exercise of the Power conferred by 
sub - Section ( 1 ) of the Section 6 of the said Act , the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedulo appended to this notifi 
cation hereby acquired for laying the pipelincs , 


और यत : सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 8 
की उपधारा ( 1) के अधीन सरकार को रिपोर्ट दी है : 


And further in exerciso of the power conferred by sub 
Section ( 4 ) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commision free from all encumbrances. 


और यसः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के 
पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का विनिश्चय किया है , 


SCHEDULE 


अब , अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा (1 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइपलाइन 
बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए स्तन्दद्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है और 
उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 


Pipolino From D .ş. Dabka 4 to Flarr Point 

State : Gujarat Dist. : Broach Tal : Jambusar 
Villacc 

Survey No . Hectaic Are P . Are 
KANWA . . 541 

0 31 25 
- - - - - - - - 

[ No. 11 / 2 /72- L & L] 
R . N. CHOPRA, Under Secy. 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


1730 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[ PART II - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- -- 


- - 


ऑप्योगिक विकास , विज्ञान सपा प्रायोगिक मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली , 18 अप्रैल , 1973 

भारतीय मानक संस्था 
का0 मा0 1272- - समय-समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिन्ह ) विनियम 1955 के विनियम के उपविनियम 
( 1 ) के अनुसार अधिमूचित किया जाता है कि जिन भारतीय मानकों के व्यौरे नीचे अनसूची में दिए है , रद्द कर दिए गए है . - । 


- - - - - 


- - -- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- -- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


क्रम रद्द किए गए भारतीय मानक की संख्या भारत के राजपत्न की एरा० प्रो० सं० प्रोर तिथि 

विवरण 
मन्या और शीर्षक 

जिसमें भारतीय मानक के निर्धारण की सूचना 
छपी 

4 
1 . नाई . एम . 6 10 - 1955 अनाज के भण्डारण और एम० भार० प्रो० 710 दिनांक 16 मार्च 1956 आई० एस० . 6 1 5 1 ( भाग 2 ) 1971 भण्डारण 

भण्डारण अवधि मे उसके बचाव की रीति भारत के राजपत्न भाग 2 खण्ड 3 दिनाक 241 प्रबन्ध सहिता भाग 2 खेती के बीज तथा उपज के 
मंहिता मार्च, 1956 में प्रकाशिम 

धरने उठाने और भण्डारण सम्बन्धी मामान्य 
मावधानी, के प्रकाशन के बाद रद्द कर दिया 

गया है । 
2. आई एम : 6 11 - 1955 अनाज धरने-उठाने एस० श्रार प्रो० 710 दिनांक 16 मार्च, 1956 आई० एस० : 6151 ( भाग 2 ) 1971 भण्डारण 
की रीति सहिता 

भारत के रामपन्न भाग 2 खण्ड 3 दिनांक 24 प्रबन्ध संहिता भाग ? खेती के बीज तथा उपज के 
मार्ष, 1956 में प्रकाशित 

धरने- उठाने और भण्डारण सम्बन्धी सामाग्य 
सावधानी , के प्रकाशन के बाद रद्द कर 

दिया गया है । 
3. आई एस : 1291 - 1958 पशुओं के चाटने के एस० प्रो० 21 10 दिनाक 17 सितम्बर, 1959 आई० एस० - 920- 1972 पशुप्रा के उपयोग के लिए 
नगक (सावे- और खनिज गुफा ) की विशिष्ट भारत के रामपन्न भाग 2 खण्ड 3 उपखण्ड 2 साधारण नमक और पशुओं के चाटने के नमक 
दिनांक 26 सितम्बर , 1959 में प्रकाणित की विशिष्ट ( यह पुन. ) के प्रकाशन के बाद 

रद्द कर दिया गया । 
4 . आई . एस . 1510-- 1959 पशु आहार के लिए. एम . मो० 2494 दिनांक 5 अक्टूबर, 1960 आई० एस० 1509- 1972 पशु आहार के लिए 
टैपियोका प्राटे की विशिष्टि 

भारत के राजपत्र भाग 2 खण्ड 3 उपखण्ड ( 2 ) टेपिओका की विशिष्टि ( यह पुन. ) के प्रकाशन 

विनाक 15 अक्टूबर 1960 में प्रकाशित के बाद रद्द कर दिया गया है । 
5. आई एस : 2 5 55 - 196 3 औपचारिक एस० प्रो0 950 दिनांक 6 मार्च, 1964 भारत के प्राई० एस० : 1824 - 1071 धरेलू कीटनाशक की 
परीक्षण वाले कीटनाशक की विशिष्टि 

राजपम भाग 2 खण्ड 3 उपखण्ड ( 2 ) दिनांक विशिष्टि ( यह ( पुन. ) के प्रकाशन के बाद रद्द कर 
21 मार्च, 1964 मे प्रकाशित 

दिया गया है । 

[सं० सी० एम० डी०/ 13 : 7] 

ए० मी० राव , निवेशक ( सेन्ट्रल मार्क्स) 
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 

New Delhi, tho 18 April, 1973 

INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 
S . O , 1272 - In pursuance of sub -regulation (1 ) of Regulations of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) 
Regulations, 1955 , as amendod from time to limo, it is, hereby , notified that the Indian Standards, particulars of which ato mentioned in 
the Schedule given hereafter, have beon cancelled : 

SCHEDULE 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


( 4 ) 


( 2) 


Sl. No, and Title of the Indian Standard S. O . No. and Date of Gazette Notificationin 

Remarks 
No. Cancolled 

which Establishment of the Indian Standa 

rd was notified 
— (1 ) 

- - - (3 ) 
1. IS :610 -- 1955 Code of practice for storage of S . R . O . 710 dated 16 March , 1956 published Cancelled in view of publication of IS :6151 
food gcain and its protection during storage in tho Gazette of India , Part 11, Section - 3 (Pt. Il )- 1971 Storage management code 
dated 24 March , 1956. 

Part Il General carc in handling and 

____ storage of agricultural produce ancl inputs . 
2 . IS : 611 - 1955 Colle of practice for handling SR. 0 . 710 dated 16 March , 1956 published Cancelled in vicw of publication of IS : 6151 
of food grain 

In theGazettc of India , Part II , Section- 3 ( Pt II )- 1971 Storage management code 
dated 24 March , 1956 . 

Part Il Gencral care in handling and 
storage of agricultural produce and in 

puts . 
3 . IS : 1291 — 1958 Specification for cattlo S . 0 . 2110 datod 17 September , 1959 publislied Cancelled in view of publication of 
licks (plain & mineralized) 

____ in the Gazette of India, Part II , Section- IS : 920 - 1972 Specification for common 

3 , Sub -scction ( ii ) datod 26 September , salt and cattle licks for aniinal consumnp 
1959 

tion. 

(first revision ) 
4 . IS : 1510 — 1959 Specification for tapioca flour S . O . 2494 dated $ October 1960 published in Cancelled in view of publication of IS : 
for aniinal feed 

the Gazette of India , Fart II , Section- 3 , 1509 - 1972 Specification for gricca 
Sub -soction ( ii ) dated 15 October , 1960 as live stock feed . 

( first revision ) 
5 IS : 2555 — 1963 Specilication for official S . O . 950 dated 6 March , 1964 published in Cancellod in viow of publication of IS : 
tost insecticide 

the Gazotte of India, Part II , Section- 3 , 1824 -- 1971 Spccification for household 
Sub -section ( ii ) dated 21 March , 1964 insecticidal spray . 

( first revision ) 

[ No CMD 13 · 71 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] 


IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1731 


स्थास्थम और परिवार नियोजन मंत्रालय 

( स्वास्थ्य विभाग ) 


आदेश 
नई दिल्ली, 13 अप्रैल , 1973 
का . आ . 1273.-- यत : भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय 
के 23 जलाई , 1962 की अधिसूचना सं , एस. सो . 2446 इद्वारा 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने निर्देश दिया है कि भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद 
अधिनियम , 1950 (1958 का 102) के प्रयोजनों के लिए नि 
यर्सिटी आव जार्ज टाउन , वाशिंगटन द्वारा प्रदत्त एम . डी . 
चिकित्सा अहसा मान्य चिकित्सा अर्हता होगी , 


नई दिल्ली, 16 अप्रैल, 1973 
का . आ . 1274. - यत : भारतीय सिकिस्सा परिषद् ( स्नातकोत्तर 
चिकित्सा शिक्षा समिति ) नियमावली , 1961 के नियम 4 के उप 
नियम (2 ) के साथ पादरा भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद अधिनियम 
( 1956 का 102) की धारा 20 की उपधारा ( 3) जिसे इसके आगे 
उक्त नियम कहा जाएगा के उपबन्धों का अनुसरण करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने कर्नल एम . ताजुद्दीन , एम. बी . बी . एस. एम . झी., 
डी . टी . एम . एण्ड एच . प्रफेसर ऑफ मेडीसिन एण्ड प्रिंसिपल मेडिकल 
कालेज , अलीगढ़ को डा . एस . एन . सेन जिनका निधम हो ग्या है , 
के स्थान पर स्नातकोत्तर चिकित्सा शिक्षा समिति का सदस्य 
मनोनीत किया है । 


और यत: डा . इलीन नीडफील्ड को जिसके पास उक्त अर्हता 
है और जो अपने देश में कित्सक के रूप में पंजीकत है , 
शिक्षण , अनुसंधान एंग धर्मार्थ कार्य प्रयोजनों के लिए फिलहाल 
होली फमिली हास्पिटल, मन्दर जिला रांची के साथ सम्बद्ध 


अतः अब उक्स अर्धािनयम की धारा 20 की उपधारा (1) के 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत 
सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य एवं परिवार नियोजन, निर्माण एवं आवास 
तथा तार विकास मंत्रालय ( स्वास्थ्य विभाग ) की 13 अप्रैल , 
1970 की अधिसूचना संख्या एस . ओ. 1478 में एसद्वारा निम्न 
लिखित संशोधन करती है : -- 


अतः अग , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 14 की उपधारा (1 ) 
के परन्तक के भाग ( ग ) का पालन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा : 


उक्त अधिसूचना में “ केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा मनोनीत " शीर्षक 
के अधीन क्रम संख्या 6 के सामने जल्लिखित प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर 
निम्नलिखिस प्रविष्टि प्रतिस्थापित कर ली जाय : 


आगामी 


(1 ) 31 दिसम्बर, 1973 को समाप्त होने वाले 

अधि, अथवा 


"कर्नल एम . ताजद्दीन , प्रोफेसर ऑफ मेडिसिन एण्ड प्रिंसिपल , 
मेडिकल कालेज, अलीगढ़, " 

[ संख्या पी . 11019 / 1 / 73 एम. पी . टी .] 


( 2 ) उस अवधि को जब तक हा , ईलीन नीडफील्ड, होली 

फमिली हास्पिटल मन्दर, जिला रांची के साथ सम्बद्ध 
रहते हैं , जो भी कम हो वह अवधि विनिर्दिष्ट करती 
है , जिसमें पूर्वावत डा . मडिकल प्रेक्टिस कर सकेंगे । 


New Delhi, the 16th April , 1973 


[ प . सं . वी . 11018/ 17/ 72-एम . पी . टी. ] 


s. o . 1274. - Whereas the Central Government has , in 
pursuance of the provisions of sub- Section ( 3 ) of Section 
20 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956) , 
(bereinafter referred to as the said Act ) read with sub - rule 
( 2 ) of fule 4 of the Indian Medical Council ( Post- graduate 
Medical Education Committee ) Rules, 1961, nominated 
Col. M . Tajuddin , MBBS , MD , DTM & H , Professor of 

Medicine and Principal , Medical College , Aligarh, to be a 
member of the Post- graduate Medical Education Committee 
vice Dr. S . N . Sen expired , 


MINISTRY OF HEALTII AND FAMILY PLANNING 

( Department of Health) 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 13th April, 1973 


S . O . 1273. ..- Wherens by the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Health No. S . O . 2446 
dated the 23rd July , 1962 , the Central Government has directed 
that the medical qualification , " M . D ." granted by the Uni 
versity of Georgetown , Washingdon , shall be a recognised 
medical qualification for the purposes of the Indian Medical 
Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956) ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 20 of the said Act , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in 
the notification of tho Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Health and Family Planning and Works, 
Housiog and Urban Development ( Department of Health ) 
No . S. O . 1475 , dated the 13th April, 1970 , namely : 


And whcreas Dr. Eilecni Niedfield who possesses the 
said qualification and is registered medical practitioner in her 
own country is for the file being attached to tho Holy 
l amily IIospital, Mandar , Ranchi District for the purposes 
of teaching, reseach and charitable work ; 


In the said notification , under the heading " Nominated 
by the Central Government" , for the entry against serial 
No. 6 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" Col. M . Tajuddin , MBBS, MD , DTM & H , Professor 
of Medicine and Principal, Medical College , Aligarh " 

___ [ No. V .11019/ 1 / 73- MPT ] 


आदेश 


नई दिल्ली , 18 अप्रैल , 1973 


Now, therefore , in pursuance of clause ( ८ ) of the 
proviso to sub -section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the said Act, the 
Central Governinent hereby spcciſies - - 
( i) a further period cncling with the 31st December , 

1973 , or 
( ii ) the period during which Dr. Eileen Nicdfield is attached 

to the said holy Family Ilospital, Mandar , Ranchi 
District whichever is shorter , as the period to which 
the medical purctice by the aforesaid doctor shall be 
limited , 


का . आ . 12 . - यत . भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय 
के दिनांक 22 अप्रैल , 1980 की अधिसूचना संख्या 17-2 / 80 पि . 
यारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने निर्देश दिया है कि भारतीय चिकित्सा 
परिषच अधिनियम , 1958 ( 1956 का 102 ) के प्रयोजनों के लिए 
पैनसिलवेनिया, संयुक्त राज्य अमरीका द्वारा प्रदत्त " ग्म . डी . 
नामक चिकित्सा अर्हता मान्य चिकित्सा अर्हता होगी, और यतः 


[ No . V . 11016 / 17 / 72 - MPT] 


1732 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


[ PART II 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 


डा . (कमारी) हेलन सी , लालिस्की जिसके पास उक्स अर्हता है 
धर्मार्थ कार्य के प्रयोजनों के लिए फिलहाल होली फमिली अस्पताल , 
मन्दर जिला रांची के साथ संबंद्ध है । 


अतः अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 14 की उपधारा (1 ) के 
परन्तक के भाग ( ग ) का पालन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा: 
(1) 31 दिसम्बर, 1972 को समाप्त होने वाली अधि से आगे . 

अथवा 
( 2 ) उस अधि को जब तक हा , (कमारी ) हेलन सी . 
सालिस्की जो उस्त होली फमिली अस्पताल , मन्दर जिला रांची के 
साथ संबंध रहते हैं जो भी कम हो वह अवधि विनिर्दिष्ट करती 
है , जिसमें पूर्वोक्त डा . मक्षिकल प्रक्टिस कर सकेंगे । 

[ संख्या वी , 11018/ 2 / 73 एम .पी . टी .] 
___ क,. सती बालकृष्णा, अवर समित्र 


___ New Delhi , the 24th April, 1973 
S. O . 1276. - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 75 
of the Aircraft Rules , 1937, the Central Government hereby 
extends upto the 30th June , 1973, the period of time within 
which the Court of Inquiry appointed by the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation by 
notification No. Av. 15013 / 9 / 73- A dated the 21st March , 
1973, will be expected to complete its inquiry into the matters 
specified in the notification mentioned above and report to 
the Central Government. 

[ File No . Av. 15013 / 9 / 73 - A ] 

S. N. KAUL , Dy . Secy . 


ORDER 
New Delhi , the 18th April , 1973 


s . o . 1275 . - Whereas by the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the lato Ministry of Health No . 17- 2 /60 

MI , dated the 22nd April, 1960, the Central Government 
has directed that the Medical qualification, M . D . ( Pennsyl 
vania , USA ) shall be a recognised medical qualifisation for 
the purpose of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 (102 
of 1956) , 


And whereas Dr. ( Miss ) Helen C . Lalinsky , who posses 
ses the said qualification is for the time being attached to 
the Holy Family Hospital, Mandar , District Ranchi for the 
purposes of charitable work , 


नौवहन और परिवहन मंत्रालय 

( परिवहन पक्ष ) 

नई दिल्ली, 29 मार्च, 1979 
फा , आ . 1277. - मोटर गाड़ी ( तृतीय पक्षकार बीमा ) नियम, 
1948 में और संशोधन करने के लिए नियमों का निम्नलिखित 
प्रारूप जिन्हें केन्द्रीय सरकार मांदर गाड़ी अधिनियम 1939 
(1939 का 4 ) की धारा 111 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए बनाने की प्रस्थापना करती है । उन सभी व्यक्तियों 
की जानकारी के लिए जिनका उसके द्वारा प्रभावित होना संभाव्य 
है प्रकाशित किया जाता है और एसद्घारा सूचना दी जाती है कि 
प्रारूप पर 15 मई , 1973 या उक्त नियम पाल राजपत्र की प्रतियां 
आम जनता को उपलब्ध कराई गई की तारीख से 30 दिन जो 
भी बाद में हो के पश्चात, विचार किया जाएगा । 

उक्त प्रारूप की बाबत किसी व्यक्ति से जो आक्षेप या सुझाव 
प्राप्त होंगे उन पर इस प्रकार विनिर्दिष्ट तारीख से पूर्व केन्द्रीय 
सरकार द्वारा विचार किया जायंगा । 

प्रारूप निपम 
1. इन नियमों का नाम मोटर गाड़ी ( तृतीय पक्षकार बीमा) 
संशाधन नियम , 1973 होगा । 

2. मोटर गाडी ( तृतीय पक्षकार बीमा ) नियम, 1948 के नियम 
15- वी में उपनियम (1 के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित उप -नियम 
रखा जाएगा अर्थात : 


Now therefore, in pursuance of clause (c ) of the proviso 
to sub- Section ( 1 ) of Section 14 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby specifies : -.. 


(i) a further period ending on the 31st December, 1973 , 

or 
(ii ) the period during which Dr. ( Miss ) Helen C . 

Lalinsky is attached to the said Holy Family Hos 
pital, Mandar , District Ranchi , whichever is shorter , 
as tho period to which the medical practice by the 
aforesaid doctor shall be limited . 

No. V . 11016 / 2 / 73- MPT ] 
KM. SATHI BALAKRISHNA, Under Secy . 


पर्यटन और नागर विमानन मंबालप 


"15- बी -( 1) निधि 1 लाख रूपये से अव्यून संख्या माम्भिक 
राशि से स्थापित किया जाएगा और उक्त राशि को बैंक 

या सरकार के पास जमा रखा जायेगा " । 


[ सं. 41- टी . ए. जी . (1 )/ 70 ] 
एन. ए. ए. नारायणन, अवर सचिव 


नई दिल्ली , 24 अप्रैल , 1973 
का . आ . 1276. पारपान नियम 1937 के नियम 75 वारा 
प्रवत्स शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए भारत सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उस समय की अवधि को बढ़ा कर 30 जून 1973 करती है जिसके 
कि बीच भारत सरकार के पर्यटन और नागर विमानन मंत्रालय 
स्वारा अपनी अधिसूचना सं . ए वी . 15013 / 9 / 73-ए , दिनांक 
21-3-1973, द्वारा नियुक्त किये गये जांच न्यायालय से आशा की 
जाती है कि वह उपयुक्त अधिसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट मामलों पर 
अपनी जांच का कार्य समाप्त कर लेगा और उसकी रिपार्ट केन्द्रीय 
सरकार को दे देगा । 

[ फा , सं . ए. वी . 15013/ 8 / 73-0.] 

सुरेन्द्र नाथ कॉल, उप सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 


New Delhi , the 29th March, 1973 


S . O . 1277, -- The following draft rules further to amend the 
Motoi Vehicles ( Third Party Insurance ) Rules , 1946 , which 
the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 111 of the Motor Vehicles 
Act, 1939 ( 4 of 1939), is published for the information of 
persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby 


SEC. 3 ( i) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1733 


- - 


- --- - - - - 


given that the said draft will be taken into consideration 
after the 15th May, 1973 or after the expiry of a period of 
thirty days from the date on which the gazette copies con 
taining tho said rules are inade available to the general public, 
whichever is later, 


Any objections or suggestions, which may be received from 
Any person with respect to thç said draft before the date 
specified above, will be considered by the Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 


20 . श्रीमती कमला दुआ 
21. श्री तलाक्षी शाह 
22. श्री राजनारायण सिंह 
23. श्रीमती आर. एस . मांगा 
24. श्री ए. के. बनर्जी 
25. श्री सिक जे. शाद 
28. श्रीमती मृणालिनी चौकसी 
27. श्रीमती ललिता एन . बापट 
28. श्रीमती एस . गुलरजानी 

[ फाइल संख्या 11 / 3 / 72- एफ , सी .] 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 31st March , 1973 


1 . These rules may be called the Motor Vehicles ( Third 
Party Insurance) Amendment Rules, 1973 , 


2. In rule 15B of the Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insu 
rance ) Rules, 1946, for sub -rule ( 1) , the following sub -rule 
shall be substituted, namely : 


" 150 , - ( 1) The Fund shall bo established with an initial 

amount of not less than rupees one lakh and the 
said amount shall be kept in deposit with the bank 
or the Government . " . 

[ No . 41- TAG( 1)/ 70] 
N. A. A. NARAYANAN, Under Secy. 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली, 31 मार्च, 1973 
फा . आ . 1278. - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 (1) 
और चलचित्र नियमावली, 1958 के नियम 9 के उप -नियम ( 2) 
के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम (3) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर 
बोर्ड से परामर्श करके एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 
पहली अप्रैल , 1973 से 30 जून , 1973 तक, उक्त बोर्ड के बम्बई 
सलाहकार पैनल का फिर से सवस्य नियुक्त किया है : 

1. श्री कमलेश्वर 
2. प्रो . के. जी . अग्रवाल 
8. श्री एस . एस . रंगे 
4. प्रो . (श्रीमती) विजया राजाध्यक्ष 
5. श्री डी . जी . नादकी 
6. मो . मुरली ठाकर 
7. श्री जी . के. दतिया 
8. डा . ( श्रीमती) चारू शीला बी . गुप्त 
9. श्रीमती कमला तिलक । 
10. श्रीमती पदमा के. ईसाई 
11. डा . ( क,मारी ) लब्बैन एस . सानेजी 
12. श्रीमती नलिनी एस . सखथंकर 
13. श्रीमती मणिबन देसाई 
14. श्रीमती टी. वी . देहजिया 
15. श्रीमती लक्ष्मी वाही 
16. श्री एस . डी . शाह 
17. श्री गंगाराम जोशी 
18. श्री राम नारंग 

19, श्री एस . ई . हसनेन 
11 G of I / 73 - 5 


. . S . O . 1278. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of 
rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby re 
appoints the following persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors as members of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from 1st April, 
1973 upto 30th June , 1793 : -.. 

1 . Shri Kamaleshwar 
2. Prof. K . G. Aggarwal 
3 . Shri S. S . Rege 
4 . Prof. (Smt.) Vijaya Rajadhyaksha 
5 . Shri D . G . Nadkarni 
6 . Prof. Murli Thakur 
7 . Shri G . K . Dutla 
8 . Dr. (Smt . ) CharushcclaB. Gupta . 
9 . Smt. Kamala Tilak 
10. Smt. Padma K . Desai 
11 . Dr. (Miss ) Labuben S . Sonoji 
12 . Smt. Nalini S . Sukthankar 
13. Smt. Maniben Desai 
14 . Smt. T . V . Debejia 
15 . Smt. Laxmi Wahi 
16. Shri S. D . Shah 
17. Shri Ganga Ram Joshi 
18 . Shri Rama Narang 
19. Shri S . E . Hasnain 
20 . Smt. Kamala Dua 
21. Shri Talakshi Shah 
22 . Shri Rajnatain Singh 
23. Smt. R . S . Boga 
24. Shri A . K . Banerjee 
25 . Shri Rasik J. Shah 
26 . Smt. Mrinalini Choksi 
27. Smt . Lalita N . Bapat 
28. Smt. S . Gulrajani 

[ F. No. 11 / 3 / 72 - FC ] 


फा . आ . 1279. - चलचित्र अधिनियम, 1952 की धारा 5 (1 ) 
और चलचित्र ( सेन्सर) नियमावली , 1958 के नियम 9 के उप 
नियम (2 ) के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -निगम (3 ) वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने 
एतद्वारा केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर बोर्ड से परामर्श करने के बाद, 
निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 1 अप्रैल, 1973 से 20 जून , 1973 


1734 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- - - . - .. 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


तक, उक्त बोर्ड के मद्रास सलाहकार पैनल का सदस्थ फिर से 
नियुक्त किया है : 


8. Prof. M . Mariappa Bhat 

9 . Sint. Mary Clubwala Jadhav 
10. Shri P. R . Ramalingam 
11. Shri G . Varadappa 
12. Smt. R . Suvarna 
13 . Smt. P . V . Bhagirathi 
14 . Smt. Bertha Lobo 
15 . Smt. Indira D . Kothari 
16. Smt. Malati Chendur 
17. Shri C . R. Sarma 
18 . Shri P . S . Srinivasu 
19. Smt. Raji Rangachari 
20 . Smt. Padmini Achutha Menon 
21. Smt. N . S . Mani 
22 . Dr. S . Vijayalakshmi 
23. Smt . Leela Parthasarthi 
24 . Kumari P . Shanta Rai 
25. Smt. M . Leelavathi 
26 . Smt. Sarojini Varadappan 
27 . Smt . Rohini Krishnachandra 
28 . Dr. (Miss) C . M . Lcclavati 
29 . Smt. Hemlata Anjaneyulu 
30 . Smt. Sara Syed Yusuff 


1. श्री टी नीलकंतन 
2. श्रीमती सौन्द्रा कैलासम 
3. श्री पकाला सूर्यनारायण राप 
4 . श्री मोहम्मद यूसुफ कोकण 
5. श्री एम . गोविन्दन 
6. श्रीमती सी. एल . मीनाक्षी अम्मा 
7. श्री पी . वी. चलपतेश्वर राव 
8. प्रो. एम. मरिअप्पा भट्ट 
9. श्रीमती मेरी कलबवाला जादव 
10. श्री पी . के. रामलिंगम 
11. श्री जी . परदप्पा 
12. श्रीमती आर. सवर्ण 
13. श्रीमती पी. वी. भागीरथी 
14. श्रीमती बयां लामा 
15. श्रीमती इन्दिरा डी . कोठारी 
16. श्रीमती मालती चन्द्र 
17. श्री सी . आर. शर्मा 
18. श्री जी . एस , श्रीनिवास 
19. श्रीमती राजी रंगाचारी 
20. श्रीमती पद्य्मनी अषता मेनन 
21. श्रीमति एन . एस . माण 
22. डा . एस . विजयालक्ष्मी 
23 . श्रीमती लीला पार्थसारथी 
24. क,मारी पी . शान्ताबाई 
25. श्रीमती एम . लीलावती 
26. श्रीमती सरोजिनी वरदप्पन 
27. श्रीमति रोहिणी कृष्णचन्द्र 
28 . डा . (क,मारी) सी . एम . लीलावती 
29 . श्रीमती हेमलता अर्जनेयाल, 
30 . श्रीमती सारा सैयद यूसूफ 

[ सं . एफ 11 / 4/ 72- एफ . सी ] 


[ F, No. 11/ 4172- FC ] 


का , आ . 1250.. चलचित्र अधिनियम, 1952 की धाग 5( 1 ) 
और चलचित्र ( सेन्सर) नियमावली, 1958 के नियम 9 के उप 
नियम ( 2 ) के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम (3 ) पारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने 
एतद्द्वारा केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर बोर्ड से परामर्श करने के बाद , 
निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 1 अप्रैल, 1973 से 30 जून, 1973 
तक , उक्त बोर्ड के कलकत्ता सलाहकार पैनल का फिर से सदस्य 
नियुक्त किया है : 


1. श्रीमती उमा सहानवीस 
2. श्री संलन मुखर्जी 
3. श्रीमती काजल सेनगात 
4. श्रीमती अबू सईद अय्यूब 
5. श्रीमती शव्या दत्त 
6. श्रीमती आशा पूर्णा देवी 
7. श्रीमती रीता रे 
8. श्री सुजीत के. चक्रवर्ती 
9. श्री आर . पी . गुप्त 
10. श्री अनन्त महापात्र 
11 . श्री सोमयेन्द्र नाथ टैगोर 
12. श्रीमती उषा खान 
13. श्री रानेन अयन दत्त 
14. श्रीमती जयश्री सन 


$.0 . 1279 . — In cxcrcise of the powers conferred by Section 
5( 1 ) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, and sub -rule ( 3 ) of 
rule 8 read with Sub -rule (2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
re- appoints the following persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors , as members of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect from 1st April, 
1973 upto 30th June, 1973 : 


[ फाइल संख्या 11/ 5/ 72 -एफ सी ] 


1. Shri T . Neelakanthan 
2. Smt. Soundra Kailasam 
3 . Shri Pakala Suryanarayana Rao 
4. Shri Mohd. Yousuf Kokan 
5 . Shri M . Govinian 
6 . Smt. C . 1 . Meenakshi Amma 
7 . Shri P . V . Chalapatheswara Rao 


S . O . 1280. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
5 ( 1 ) of tho Cinematograph Act , 1952 , and sub - rulo ( 3 ) of rule 
8 read with sub- rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government heroby 
TO - Appoluts the following persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors , as members of the Advisory 


- - - - 


- - - - 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1735 
- -- -- - - - - - -- - 

- - - - - - - - - 
Panel of tho said Board at Calcutta with effect from 1st April. कालीकट को मस्य विद्यत -निरीक्षक के सहायक अधिकारियों के 
1973 upto 30th June , 1973 : - - 

रूप में नियुक्त करती है । 
1. Smt. Unma Sahanabis 

[ सं . बिजली- दा .-4 ( 4) / 07 ] 
2 . Shri Sailen Mookerje 
3 . Smt. Kajal Sen Gupta 

एम . रामानाथन , उप -निदेशक (विद्यत ) 
4. Smt. Abu Sayeed Ayyub 
5 . Smt. Shaibya Dutt 

MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 
6 . Smt . Asha Purna Debi 

New Delhi, the 10th April , 1973 
7 . Smt . Rita Ray 
8 . Shri Sujit K , Chakrabarti 

S. O . 1282 .-.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 

Section ( 1 ) of section 36 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 
9 . Shri R . P. Gupta 

( 9 of 1910), the Central Government hereby appoint the 
10 . Shri Anant Mahapatra 

Chief Electrical Inspector to the Government of Kerala to 
11. Shri Şaumyendra Nath Tagore 

be the Electrical Inspector in respect of the Union territory of 

Laccadive , Minicoy and Amindivi Islands and the Regional 
12. Smt. Usha Khan 

Electrical Inspector and the Assistant Electrical Inspector at 
13. Shri Ranen Ayan Dutte 

Calicuit as officers to assist the Chicf Electrical Inspector . 
14. Smt . Jayasree Sen 

[ No . EL. II - 4( 4) / 67 ] 
[ F. No. 11 / 5 / 72 -FC] 

M . RAMANATHAN , Dy. Director (Power) 


का . आ . 181. - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 3 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) दवारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए, 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद्द्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 1 
अप्रैल , 1973 से 30 जून , 1973 सक , केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर बोर्ड 
का फिर से सदस्य नियक्त किया है :-- 

1. श्री बी . आर. अग्रवाल 
2. श्री ए. एल. श्रीनिवासन 
3. श्री बी . आर. चोपड़ा 
4 . श्री बी . एन . सरकार 
5 . श्रीमती वीना दुग्गल 
8. श्रीमती एम . नस्लल्लाह 
7. श्रीमती सुरेन्द्र गुप्त 
8. श्री सी . आर. सुन्दरम 

[ फाइल संख्या 11/ 6 / 72- फ . सी .7 

हरजीत सिंह, अवर सचिव 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1973 
S . 0 . 1283. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, No . 3 , Dhanbad, in the industrial disputo 
between the employers in relation to the munagement of 
Kharkharee Colliery of Bharat Mining Corporation Limited , 
Post Office Kharkharee , District Dhanbad and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 17th 
April , 1973. 


S. O . 1281.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 , 
the Central Government hereby re -appoints tho following per 
sons as members of the Central Board of Film Censurs with 
offect from 1st April , 1973 upto 30th June , 1973 : 

1. Shri B . R . Agarwal 
2 . Shri A . L . Srinivasan 
3 . Shri B. R . Choprn 
4 . Shri B . N . Sircar 
5 . Smt . Veena Duggal 
6 . Smt . M . Nasrullah 
7 . Smt. Surrinder Gupta 
8 . Shri C , R . Sundaram 

[ F. No . 11 / 6 / 72- FC ] 
HARJIT SINGH , Under Secy , 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
CUM -LABOUR COURT NO . 3 , DIIANBAD 

Reference No. 38 of 1969 
Present : 

Shri B. S. Tripathi , Presiding Officer . 
Partles : 
( 1 ) Management of Kharkharce Colliery of Bharat Mining 

Corporation Limited , P . O . Kharkhaiec. District 

Dhanbad . 
( 2 ) Bharat Coking Coal Limited, Dhanbad (added as 

a party to the proceeding as per Order No . 23 dated 
23 - 3 - 72 ) , 

AND 
Their workmen represented by Bihar Koyla Mazdoor 

Sabha, Dhanbad. 
Appearances : 
For M / s . Bharat Mining Corporation Limited — Shr 

P . K . Bose , Advocate . 
For Bharat Coking Coni Limited _ Shri S. S. Mukherjee , 

Advocate . 
For Workmen - Shri Lalit Burman , General Secretary, 

Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha . 
State : Bihar. 

____ Industry : Coal. 
Dhanbad , the 10th April, 1973 

AWARD 
The Central Government in the Ministry of Labour , 
Employment & Rehabilitntion (Departinent of Labour & 
Employment) being of the opinion that an industrial disputo 
exists between the employers in relation to the management 
of Kharkharee Colliery of M / s . Bharat Mning Corporation 
Ltd ., P . O . Kharkharee, Dist . Dhanbad and their workmen 
in respect of the matters Specified in the schedule of reference, 
by their Oncler No 2 / 54 /69- 1 RII dated 26- 5 -69 referred the 
said dispute under Section 10 ( 1 )( J ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 to this Tribunal for adjudication . The schedule 
of reference is extracted below : 


सिंचाई और मित्त मंत्रालय 
नई दिल्ली, 10 अप्रैल , 1973 


का . आ . 1282 -- भारतीय बिजली अधिनियम , 1910 ( 1910 का 
8 ) की धारा 38 की उप - धारा (1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों की 
परिपालना में , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा मुख्य विद्युत-निरीक्षक , 
केरल सरकार को लक्कादीव , मिनिकोय और आमीनदोषी दवीप 
समूह के संघ राज्य क्षोत्र के सम्बन्ध में विद्यत-निरीक्षक के रूप में 
और क्षेत्रीय विद्यत निरीक्षक और सहायक विन्यास-निरीक्षक 


1736 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 . 1895 


[ PART II . 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Kharkharee 

Colliery of M / s. Bharat Mining Corporation Limited 
P . O . Kharkharee , Dist. Dhanbad terminating the 
services of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh , Electriciun , 
with effect from 1st October, 1968 was justified ? If 
not, to what relief is the workman concerned 
entitled ? " 


released on bail is totally baseless, false and malafdo . Tho 
workman was never involved in any such case . It is submitted 
that the action of the management in terminating the servicese 
of the workman by their letter dated 28 - 9 -68 allcging loss of 
confidcnco for the baseless and unfounded reason is totally 
unjustificd . It is said that the action of the management 
in terminating the services of the workman under the cir 
cumstances stated above amounts to victimization . The sub 
mission is that the present reference should accordingly be 
answered in favour of the workmen and the Tribunal will 
order for reinstatement of the workman with back wagc9 . 


5 . The Bharat Coking Coal Limited adopted the written 
statement filed by the outgoing cmployers and alleged further 
that they are in no way liable or responsible for any act 
of the past management of the colliery prior to the taken over 
of the coal by the Central Government. 


2 . The reference was received in this Tribunal on 6 -6 -69 
when it was registered as reference No . 38 of 1969. Tho 
industrial dispute in question was sponsored by the Bibur 
Koyala Mazdoor Sabha before the Conciliation Officer and 
the same union represented the concerned workmen in the 
present proceeding. The written statement of M / 8 Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited was received in this Tribunal on 
17 -6 -69 and that filed on bchali of the workmon was received 
here on 21-6 -69. During the pendency of the present pro 
ceeding the management of the colliery in question vested in 
the Central Government and then in Bharat Cokin s Coal 
Limited as per Law passed by the Parliament. Thereafter 
on the petition filed by the workmen and after hearing the 
parties concorned , including Bharat Coking Coal Limited 
the Bharat Coking Coal Limited were added as a party in 
the present proceeding as per Order No . 23 dated 23 - 3 - 72 . 
I may mention here that subsequently by an Act of the 
Parliament the colliery in question was nationalised and it 
Vested in the Central Government and thereafter it vested in 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited under the provisions of the 
said Act. The Bharat Coking Coal Limited filed their written . 
statement on 24 - 4 - 72 . 


3 . The case made out in the written statement of the 
outgoing employer , namely M / s . Bharat Mining Corporation 
Limited , is that the concerned workman Shri Rabi Lochan 
Ghosh was working as an Electrician in the colliery in question 
at the relevant time. There was theft of electric cable from 
the colliery and in that connection Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh 
was arrested by the Police . In view of this the management 
lost all confidence in him and his services were terminated 
by management s letter dated 28 - 9 -68 with effect from 1 - 10 -68 
and he was offered one inonth s wages in lieu of notice. The 
action of the management in terminating the services of Shri 
Rabi Lochan Ghosh is alleged to be bona fide and it is 
submitted that the workman is not entitled to any rclief. The 
management has also taken a formal plca to the effect that 
the present reference having ariseo out of an individua ) dispute 
and the same not being taken up by substantial number of 
workmen or their union , it is outside the scope of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and the reference is liablo to be sum 
marily dismissed. The management states further that they 
are not award if Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was a member of 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha or of any union at all before 
the date of termination of bis services. 


6 . On behalf of the workmen 3 docuinents , Exts. W - 1 to 
W - 3 , have been exhibited on the admission of ne employers. 
On bchalf of the employers 6 documents , namely , M - 1 to 
M - 6 have been cxhibited or admission of thọ workmen . The 
workmen examined Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh (WW - 1 ) on 
their behalf and he is the only witness on behalt of the 
workmen , The employers have not cxamined iny witness on 
their bchalf. I shall discuss the oral and documentary evi 
dence adduced by the parties in course of the award , if and 
when the necessity for the sanio will arise . 

7 . On behalf of the employers it is subinitted that it is 
a cage of termination of service simplicitor, which power the 
management exercised under Clause 14 ( a ) of the Standing 
Orders of the Company . Ext. M - 5 is the copy of the Stand 
iog Order in quçstion . Clauso 14 ( a ) runs as follows : 
" For terminating the services of a permanent workman 

having less than one year of continuous service as 
delined in Section 2 ( eee ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, a notice in writing or wages in liqu there 
of at tho scalo indicated below shall be given by the 

employer : 
(i) For monthly paid workmen - One month 
( ii ) For weekly pald workmen - One week 
Provided that no such notice shall be required to be 

glven when the services of a workman are terminated 

on account of misconduct." 
Relying upon the said provisions of the Standing Order the 
submission is that the management has terminated the service 
of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh as the management lost confidence 
on him and in that case the action of the management must 
be held to be quite justified . The Learned Advocate of the 
employers relied upon the decision of their Lordships of the 
Supreme Court in the casc of Tata Oil Mills Company Limited 
and their workmen , reported in 1966 ( 13 ) F , L . R . 65, in 
support of the above contention , especially when the Standing 
Order authorises the management to terminate the services of 
a permanent workman after giving notice or notice pay, 


4 . According to the written statement filed by the workmen , 
Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh had been working in Kharkharee 
Colliery of M / s . Bharat Mining Corporation Limited as an 
Electrician from July , 1964. Prior to the present action of 
the management terminaling his services , the management had 
stopped Shri Ghosh from work with effect from 19- 4 -67 
illegally which was followed by reference No. 52 uf 1967 
of the Central Goverament Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 
The Tribunal in that reference by its award dated 10 - 2 -68 
directed the management to reinstatc Shri Rabi lochan Ghosh 
with continuity of service and pay full back wages for tho 
period of his idlene s from 19 -4 -67 onwards . The manage 
ment reinstated Shii Rabi Lochan Ghosh in the later part of 
March , 1968 but did not pay him the back wages us directed 
by the Tribunal in its avard . The management did not also 
make payment of monthly salary to Shri Rabi Lochan 
Ghosh since alter rcinştatement nor the management revised 
the scale of pay and salary of Shri Ghosh in accordance with 
the recommendations of Coal Wage Board as decepted by the 
Central Government. Sri Ghosh thereafter made complaint 
to the Central Government authority about the non -payment 
of the back wagcs , non - payment of the current wages and 
for the icvision of his pay scale according to thc recommenda 

ions of the Coal Wago Board . On account of all these 
demands the management began to threaten Shri Ghogh with 
dire congequences . The management in the meantimne tried 
to entangle the workman in an alleged theft of electric cable 
from the colliery on 22- 9 - 68 but was unsuccessful in getting 
him implicated in any such theft case or in getting him 
arrested by the Police. The allegation of the management 
that the workman was arrested by the Police and wus then 


8 . There is no dispute between the parties that the con 
cerned workman was & permunent employee in the colliery 
At the tinie when his services were terminated . The sei vices 
of the concerned workman was terminated by the lotter of the 
Manager of the Colliery to the workman dated 28 - 9 -08 (vide 
letter Ext. W - 3 ). By this letter his services were teimitated 
with effect from 1 - 10 -68. The evidence of the concerned work 
man (WW - 1) is that he worked in the concci ned colliery i.e . 
Kharkharee Colliery , from July , 1964 us Electrician till his 
services were terminated . He states further that prior to the 
present action , his services were previously terminated on 
19- 4 -67 iesulting in an industiial dispute which was jeferred 
by the Central Government to the Central Governnent Indus 
trial Tribunal No . 1 , Dhanbad for adjudication), who by his 
uward in reference No. 52 of 1967 directed reinstatement of 
the workman with full back wages . The workmall further 
states that thc management reinstated him on 27 - 3 - 68 in 
persuance of the award . He then continued to work ay 
Electrician is before till his services were te :minated with 
effect from 1- 10 -68 by inc letter of the management already 
said above. These facts were not challenged by the manage 
ment in cross - examination and at the time of argument the 
Learned Advocate of the employers Sri P . K . Boso accepted 
these facts as deposed by the workman to be correct. It is 
thus clear that Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh worked as Electrician 
in Kharkharee Colliery from July , 1964 till 30 - 9 -68. 


Sec . 3 (ü ) ] 


1737 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


- 


form of the order, the Industrial adjudication will 
examino the substance and would direct roinstate 
ment in a fit case ." 


9 . The Standing Order quoted above confers power to the 
management to terminate the services of a pormancut work 
man having less than one year of continuous service . But 
the present case is onc rclating to a permanent workman 
who was in continuous service for about four years . In my 
opinion, therefore, Clause 14 (a ) of the Standing Order relied 
upon by the management has no application to the present 
case. The Learned Advocate of the employers could not 
point out any other clause in the Standing Order or any nepa 
rate contract of seivice authorising the management in such 
a casc to terminate the services of the workmen . In the 
case relied upon by the employers , already said above , the 
coucerned workman was discharged from service under the 
terms of contract between the company and thc workman 
specifically embodied in Rule 40 ( 1) of the Service Rules of 
the Company . As pointed out above , in the present case 
there is no specific rule or Standing Order or any separate 
contract between the workman and the employers to teininato 
the services of a permanent workman who is in continuous ser 
vice for more than one year. The management, therefore , 
cannot have unrestricted powei to terminato tuc services of 
such a workman . 


11. In view of the above decision of the Supreme Court 
it comes to this that even if the employers have got their 
right to terminate the services of the employco under the 
terms of contract or under the provisions of the Standing 
Order , which is absent in the present case , the Industrial Court 
will cxamine whether the alleged termination of service simpli 
citor was simply a cloak of termination of service 
simplicitor or it amounts to victimization or unfair 
labour practice. The letter by which the services 
of the concerned workman was terminated reads as follows : 


Kharkharee Colliery , 


P . O . Kharkharee , $ . E . R . 

(Dhanbad ) 
Dated 28 - 9 - 1968 . 


Ref . No. 


TO 


Sri Rabi Lochan Ghosh , 
Electrician , 
Kharkharoe Colliery . 


Dear Sir, 


10 . Assuming for the sake of argument that the manage 
ment has the power to terminate the services of the workmen 
in a case of the present nature, the power cannot be unres 
tricted . In this connection referenco may be mado to the 
observation of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the 
ruling relied upon by the cmployers , already utated above 
which is as follows : - - 


You have been entangled in the theft of an electric cable 
stolen from the colliery for which you were arrested by the 
Police and has since been released on bail. 


In view of the above , 
confidence in you, 


the management has lost all 


The management, therefore , segrets to terminate your 
service with effect from 1 - 10 -68. You will be paid one 
month wages in lieu of notice , which you are asked to collect 
together with other legal dues if any from the office on any 
working day and vacate the Company s quarter occupied by 
you , 


Yours faithfully, 

Sd / 
Manager, 


" The true legal position about the Industrial Court s 

jurisdiction and authority in dealing with cuses of 
this kind is no longei in doubt. It is true in scvoral 
casey, contracts of cmployment or provisions in Stand 
ing Order authorise an industrial employer to ter 
minate the services of his employee ofter giving notice 
of one month or paying salary for onc month in 
lieu of notice , and normally , an cmployer may, in 
a proper case, be entitled to exercise the same power. 
But, wherc an order of discharge passed by an emp 
loyer gives riso to an industrial dispute, the form of 
the order by which the employce s services are 
terminated , could not be decisive; industrial adju 
dication would be entitled to examine the suüstance 
of the matter and decide whether the termination 
is in fuct discharge simplicitor or it amounts to 
dismissal which has put on the cloak of a dischargo 
simplicitor. If the Industrial Court is satisfied that 
the order of discharge is punitive , that it is malafide, 
or that it amounts to victimization or unfair labour 
practice, it is competent to the Industrial Couit to 
set aside the order and, in a proper caso direct 
reinstatement of the employoe . In some cases, the 
termination of the cinployee s service may appcar 
to the Industrial Court capricious and so unteason 
ably severe that an inferenco may legitimately and 
reasonably be drawn that in terminating the services, 
the employer was not acting bonafide. The test has 
always to be whether the act is malaſide, or appears 
to be a colourable exercise of the power conferred 
on tho employer either by the terms of contract or 
by tho. Standing Orders, then notwithstanding tho 


By this letter the management informs the workman that it 
lost all confidence in him inasmuch as he had been en 
tangled in the theft of an electric cable stolen from the 
collicry for which he was arrested by the Police and was 
released on bail . In this connection refcrence may be made 
to the case of the workmen that thero was no such theft 
case nor the concerned workman was entangled in any such 
case, nor he was arrested by the police in any such case nor 
he had any occasion to apply for laid in any such case 
nor was he released on boil. This is the evidence of the 
concerned workman WW - 1 before this Tribuna). No witness 
on behalf of the employers has been examined to say that 
the concerned workman Shri Rabi Lochan Ghogh was en 
tangled in any such theft case or he was arrestod by the 
Polico and subsequently was released on bail in any such 
caşe . No documentary evidence has also been filed by the 
management in proof of the same. It must accordingly be 
held that Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was not entangled in any 
such case of theft of electric cable from the colliery and ho 
was not arrested by the Police nor was he released on bail in 
any such case . Therefore , the very basis of the loss of con 
fidence of the management upon Sri Rabi Lochan Ghosh , as 
stated by tho management in their letter Ext. W - 3 , falls 
through . Thus the alleged loss of confidence on the work 
man was baselegs and without any reason . At the time of 
argument the Learned Advocate of the employers has pointed 
out to me the statement of tho workman (WW - 1 ) in cross 
examination that while he was working in Kharkbarco colliery 


1738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


ho used to attend to private work and this is the ground 
for loss of confidenco of the management on the workman , 
No such case has been made out by the management in 
their written statement. Apart from it, the specific stutement 
of the workman in his evidence in cross -examination is that 
he lised to do the private work during off hours on contract 
basis under one Mr. Senapati, the Consulting Engineer of 
Kharkharec colliery , with the permission of the Manager of 
the colliery. There is no denial to this statement of the 
workman . In that view of the matter the question of loss 
of confidence of the management on the workinan on the 
ground urged by the Learned Advocate of the employers 
does not arise at all, specially when he was doing the work 
with the permission of the Manager of the colliery . 


13. On behalf of the management a formal plea has been 
taken to the effect that tho reference made is not an indus 
trial dispute in as much as the cause of the concerned work 
man was not taken up by any union of which Shri Rabi 
Lochan Ghosh was a member and as such the reference must 
be dismissed . It appears that the dispute in question was 
sponsored by Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha in tho conciliation 
procecding before Asst. Labour Commissioner (Central ) and 
the guid union represented the workman in the present pro 
ceeding . During the conciliation proceeding before Asstt. 
Labour Commissioner it was not challenged by the manage 
ment that the concerned workman was not a member of 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha . No evidence also has been 
adduced before the Tribunal by the management that the 
workman Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was not a member of 
tho said union . On the other hand , the evidence of the 
workmen before this Tribunal is to the effect that he was a 
member of the said union . The management has not adduced 
any evidence to the effect that the workmen of Kbarkharco 
colliery are not the members of Bihar Koyla Mazdoor 
Sabha, In vicw of the facts and circumstances on record , 
I overrule the objection of the management that the progent 
dispute is not an industrial dispute . 


12 . I like to discuss at this place the case of victimization 
made out by the workmen . I have already referred to above 
tho evidence of the workman that his services were previous 
ly torminated by the management on 19 - 4 - 67 in consequence 
of which an industrial dispute was raised and a reference 
was made to the Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal No. 1 , 
Dhanbad who as per award in reference No . 52 of 1961 
found the action of the management in terminating the 
services of the workman unjustificd and ordered for his 
şcinstatement with full back wages . The management there 
after reinstated the workman in service on 27 - 3 -68 . These 
facts were not disputed on behalf of the employers at the 
time of hearing, rather the facts were accepted by the 
Learned Advocate of the employers at the time of argument. 
The evidence of the workman is that he was not paid the 
back wages as per award of the Tribunal nor the managc 
ment paid to him the current wages from March to July , 
1968 after he was reinstated as per Tribunal s award . There 
after, it appears , the concerned workman wrote to the 
Director of Bharat Mining Corporation Limited , Kharkharee 
Colliery , as per his letter dated 27- 8 -68 ( Ext. W - 1 ) making 
a grievance to him that he was not paid back wages and his 
monthly salaries for the months of March , April , May, June 
& July , 1968 besides bonus etc ., and requesting to urange 
to make payment of the same at an early date. The 
management did not comply with the said prayer of the 
workman . The evidence of the workman is that on 25- 9 -68 
he was stopped from work and the documentary evidence 
on record shows that he was stopped from work by Electri 
cal Supervisor and against that order the workman made a 
grievance before the Director of the Company ( vide letter 
Ext. W -2 ) . Thereafter the workman received the letter 
Ext . W - 3 from the management saying that his services 
wero terminated with effect from 1 - 10 -68 . The fact that 
tho back wages and the current wages of the workman from 
the date of his reinstatement on the basis of the award of 
the Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal No. 1 , Dhanbad in 
reference No. 52 of 1967, referred to above , were due to the 
workman before his borvices were terminated is not denied. 
There is no reason whatsoever as to why the back wages 28 
per award were not paid so long and why the workman way 
not paid his salary for the period after his reinstatement. 
The management relics upon their letters Exts . M - 2 , M - 3 & 
M - 4 in support of their contention that they were all along 
ready to pay the dues but it was the workman who was 
not taking the amount. The above letters are dated 
18 - 24 - 10 -68 , 27 - 10 -68 & 1 - 11- 68 respectively and were issued 
long after the services of the workmun were terminated and 
also long after the demand of the same was made by the 
workman by his letter dated 27- 8 -68 said above. There is 
nothing to show what was the reason of the management 
for not making the payment of back wages and current 
wages prior to the termination of the services of the work 
man . On behalf of the workmen it is submitted that since 
the concerned workman made a demand of the back wages 
as per order of the Tribunal, said above , and also current 
wages besides bonus etc ., the management terminated the 
services of the concerned workman and it is clearly an act 
of unfair labour practice and victimization of Shri Rabi 
Lochan Ghosh by the management. The basis of the 
management for termination of the services of the concerned 
workman as per letter W - 3 being incorrect and there being 
no other basis for termination of his services, I accept, in 
view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances , the reason 
given by the workman for terminating his services and I 
hold that the action of the management in torminating the 
services of the workman was malafide and amounts to un 
fair lubour pactice and the services wero terminated to vice 
timize the workman . The order of the management termi 
nating the services of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh , Electrician 
must, therefore , be set aside. 


14 . In view of the findings recorded above my answer to 
the reference is that the action of the management of 
Kharkharce colliery of M /s . Bharat Mining Corporation Ltd ., 
P . O . Kharkharee , Dist. Dhanbad terminating the services of 
Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh Electrician with effect from 1st 
October , 1968 was not justified . The order of the manage 
ment in this regard is accordingly set aside. The question 
that now arises for consideration is what relief tho concerned 
workman is entitled to as a result of the setting aside of the 
said order of the management. I find that the concerned 
workman is entitled to be reinstated in the same post which 
he was holding at the time his services were terminated and 
he will get his back wages from 1 - 10 -68 till the date of his 
reinstatement with continuity of service and other benefits that 
will accrue to him during tho said period. The concerned 
workman will report for duty within a month from the 
date the award becomes enforceablo , failing which tho 
management will not be bound to reinstate him but the 
management s liability to pay back wages till the expiry of 
one month from the date when this award will becomo 
enforceable will remain . I like to mention here that from 
the evidence of the workman (WW - 1 ) it appears that he 
had filed an application under Section 33 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act before the Labour Court, Dhanbad 
for realisation of the back wages as per award in reference 
No . 52 of 1967 , already stated above , and also current wages 
and the matter was settled by compromiso . 


15 . The collicry in question belonged to M /s . Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited and during the pendency of tho 
present proceeding tho management of the colliery vested in 
the Central Government and then in Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited under the provisions of Coking Coal Mines ( Emer 
gency Provisions ) Act, 1971 which came into force on 
16 - 10 -71. By the provisions of this Act the Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited became the Custodian of the colliery on behalf 
of M / s . Bhurat Mining Corporation Limited who continuçd 
to be the owner of the colliery . Subyequçntly by Central 
Act No. 36 of 1972, Coking Coal Mines Nationalisation Act, 
1972 , the colliery vested absolutely in the Central Govern 
ment free from all incum -brances with ellect from 1 - 5 - 72 
and by the provisions of the said ct it vested absolutely in 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited şinco that day subject to the 
control by the Central Government. Thus M / s , Bharat Min 
ing Corporation Limited ceased to have any right what 
soever in the colliery with effect from 1- 5 - 72 and as such 
the said company is no longer in a position to reinstate the 
concerned workman in the colliery in qucation . The rein 
statement, if any, has to be made by Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited which is now Incharge of the colliery in question , 
On behalf of Bharat Coking Coal Limited it is submitted 
that ccording to the provisions of Section 9 ( 1 ) of the said 
Nationalisation Act the Bharat Coking Coal Limited shall 
not be made liable for the acts and ommissions of the pre 
vious management i.e . M /s . Bharat Mining Corporation 
Limited . In my opinion the said provisions in the Act has 
reference to pecuniary liability prior to the appointed date 
i.e . 1 - 5 - 72 and it has nothing to do with the question of 
içinstatement of a workman whose services have been wrong 
fully terminated. This question , in my opinion , is covered 


Sec . 31 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1739 


2 


by the provisions of Section 17 ( 1 ) of Act No. 36 of 1972 
which iuns as follows :- -- 


AWARD 


"This is a reference under Sec . 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act (hereinafter called the Act ) . 


The question referied to the Tribunal for its consideration 
is : 


" Whether thc action of the management of the Bank of 

Rajasthan Limited, Indore , in terminating tho ser 
vices of Shri Narcsh Kumar Shukla , Peon , with 
cffect from the 19th August, 1971, was justified ? 
If not, to whiut relief is he entitled ? 


" 17 . ( 1 ) Every person who is a workman within the 

meaning of the Industrial Disputcs Act , 1947, and 
has been , immcdiately before the appointed day, in 
the employment of a coking coal mine or coke 
oven plant shall becomo on and from the appointed 
day , an employee of the Central Government, or, 
as the case may be , of the Government company 
in which thọ right, title and interest of such mine 
or plant have vested under this Act, and shall hold 
offico of service in the coking coal mine or coko 
oven plant, as the case may be, on the same terms 
and conditions and with the same rights to pension , 
gratuity and other matters as would have been 
admissible to him if the rights in relation to such 
coking coal mine or coke oven plant had not been 
transferred to , and vested in , thọ Central Govern 
ment or Government Company , as the case may be , 
and continue to do so unless and until his employ 
ment in such coking coal mine or cokc oven plant 
is duly terminated or until his remuneration , terms 
and conditions of employmçat are duly altered , by 
the Central Government or the Government Com 
pany. " 


The competency of the reference was challenged by tho 
Bank and the following issue in addition to the issue as set 
oul in the schedule to the reference was framed by me: 


" Whether the reference is proper and valid in law and 

is maintainable ?" 


16 . In view of my finding that the order of termination 
of the services of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was illegal and 
unjustified, ho continued to bo the workman in the employ 
mont of the colliery in question and he was in the employ 
mont in that colliery on and from the appointed date 
1. e . 1 - 5 -72 as a workman of Bharat Coking Coal Limited . 
In that view of the matter it is Bharat Coking Coal Limited 
who must comply with the direction of this Tribunal regard 
ing reinstatement of the said workman in the colliery , as 
stated above. So far as the pecuniary liability under the 
present award is concerned , M /S . Bharat Mining Corporation 
Limited will be liable till 30 -4 - 72 and thercafter from 1 -5 - 72 
it will be the liability of Bharat Coking Coal Limited . 


It is alleged on behalf of the workman , Naresh Kumar 
Shukla that he was working in the Bank of Rajasthan Limi 
ted , Indoro (hereinafter called the Bank ) from the year 1968 
in the permanent Vacancy of one Sri Ramakant whose ser 
vices had been terminated earlier by thọ Bank. It was 
stated that on account of Naresh Kumar Shukla s satis 
factory temporary scrvices and in view of para 20 — 12 of the 
l irst Bipartite Settlcinent dated 19th October , 1966 , he being 
the senior nost Peon was appointed as a Probationer Peon 
( 17 - l urrash on 11 - 6 -1971 in the above mentioned vacancy 
but on 19 -8 - 1971 his services were illegally terminated by 
the management to accommodate another person . The 
workman made representations to the Bank for the redress 
of his grievance LOI wrongful termination of his services. 
Tliereafter he referred the dispute to the Assistant Labour 
Commissioner (Central) Bhopal. The Bank in defending 
ity position contended , inter alia , that Naresh Kumar Shukla 
hact worked from time to time in temporary leave vacancies 
only and that had not been taken as a probationer with effect 
from 11- 6 - 1971 us was alleged by him . It was further 
stated that since that he was given the post of temporary 
peon with cffect from 11 -6 - 1971 for 69 days his temporary 
appointment came to an end by efflux of time. The Bank 
denied that Shukla " on account of satisfactory work or 
Seniority " had been taken in the employment of the Bank 
as a probationer peon on 11 -6 - 1971. It was urged on 
behalf of the Bank that Shukla had been given only a 
temporary appointment for 69 days which , at least, may be 
taken as it lemporary appointment against a permanent 
vacancy for a period less than three months vide para 
20. 8 of the First Bi- partite Settlement " . The Bank further 
denied that Shukla s termination " took place in order to 
accommodatte another person " by the Bank . The Assistant 
Labour Commissioner (Central) took up the dispute in con 
ciliation proceedings which ended in failure . The dispute 
was thereafter rcfcrred to this Tribunal for adjudication. 


17 . This is my award . Let the award be submitted to 
the Central Government under Section 15 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 . 

[No . 2 /54 /69-LR II ) 
B . S . TRIPATHI, Presiding Oflicer. 


S . Q . 1284. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indust 
rial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the Bank of 
Rajasthan Limited and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 17th April , 1973. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

CUM -LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 


Jabalpur, the 30th March , 1973 


The dispute raised the question whether the Bank was 
justified in terminating the scrviccs of the workman . Under 
these circumstances it gave raise to a above dispute which 
was rightly referred to this Tribunal by the Central Gov 
ernment. The reference , therefore to this Tribunal is main 
tainablo . 


Present: 
Mr. Justice S. N . Katju - --Presiding Officer. 

Case No. CGIT /LC( R ) (19 ) / 72 
Notification No. L - 12012 / 4 / 72 -LR , III dated 28 -2 - 1972 
Parties : 
Employers in relation to the Bank of Rajasthan Limited , 

Indore , and their workmen , represented through the 
General Secretary, M . P . Bank Karmchari Sangh , 30 , 
Bakshi Gali Indore, ( M .P .) . 


It is not necessary for me to go further into the matter 
because the parties have resolved the dispute between them 
and have arrived at a settlement which is properly signed by 
the workman and his representative as also by the representa 
tive of the management. 


Appearances: 


Under the ternis of the scttlement it has been conceded 
that although the terminution of the services of the work 
man by the Bank wus justified but the Bank has agreed to 
take the workman in its employment on the first available 
Vacancy in the Bank in any of its branch office in Madhya 
Pradesh cxccpt at Incorcon six montht s probation . The 
terms of the settlement are fair and reasonable and I make 
my award accordingly . The aforesaid deed of sottlement 
between the partics shall form part of this award . I make 
no order as 10 costs . 

S. N . KATJU , Presiding Officer . 


For employers -- Shri P . S . Nair, Advocate Jabalpur. 


For workmcn — Shi C . L . Bharadwaj. 
Industry : Bank 

District : Indore (M .P.) 


1740 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


(PART 11 


__ 


AWARD 
This is a reference under Section 
dustrial Disputes Act. 


10 (1)(d ) of the Jo 


The question roferred to this Tribunal is : 


" Whether the action of Shri Chhotelal, Contractor, 

Chandametta Colliery of Messrs Pench Valley Coal 
Company Limited , Post Office , Parasia , District 
Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh ) . In stopping from 
work Shri Ramdayal, Supervisor, with effect from 
the 7th February , 1972 is justifiod ? If not, to what 
rellof is the workman entitled ? " 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

CAMP AT JAIPUR 

Case No. CGIT / LC (R )(19 ) of 1972 
Employers in relation to the management of Bank of 
Rajasthan , Indore ( M . P . ) 

VERSUS 
Its workman , Naresh Kumar Shukla . 

Without prejudice to the stand of the management that 
its action in terminating the services of Naresh Kumar 
Shukla the parties have agreed to settlo the dispute 
mutually on the following terms: 
1. The action of the management was justified in ter 

minating the services of N . K . Shukla . 
2 . Taking the sympathetic view of the whole matter the 

månagement has agreed to appoint Sri Naresh 
Kumar Shukla on the first available vacancy on 
probation for six months in Madhya Pradesh except 

at Indore . 
3 . The Union and the workman assures the management 

that Sri Naresh Kumar Shukla will work honestly , 

sincerely and loyaly . 
4 . The parties shall bear their own costs . 
5. The parties request the Hon ble Tribunal to make 

an award in terms of the aforesaid settlement, 
C . L . BHARDWAJ, 
NARESH KUMAR SHUKLA , 
Workmen s representatives . 

P . S . NAIR , 
Management s representativc . 
[No. L . 12012 / 4 / 72 - LR III] 


It was alleged on behalf of the workman , Ramdayal 
Supervisor , that he was working as a Supervisor and he was 
supervising all the work of the Contractor , Chhotelal, since 
the last 10 years . He had been enjoying all tho facilities 
which are given to tho employees of the Chandametta Col. 
ļiery and he was a permanent employee of the said Chhote 
lal, Contractor. It was further stated on behalf of the work 
man that Chottelal, Contractor, stopped him illegally and 
without any notice from working for tho aforesaid contrac 
tor. All his representations to the management that ho should 
be taken back on his duties did not produce any result. 
Thereafter the Union on behalf of the workman asked the 
Contractor several times to tako back on his duties but the 
Contractor refused to do so . The question was raised before 
the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ) Chhindwara 
but the conciliation procecdings ended in failure . Thercafter 
the present referenco was mado to this Tribunal. 


New Delhi, the 25th April, 1973 


S .O . 1285. — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dis 
pute between sbri Chhotelal Contractor, Chandametta Col 
fiery of Messrs Pench Valley Coal Company Limited , Post 
Office Parasia , Diştrict Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh ) and 
their workmen , which was received by tho Central Gov 
ernment on the 18th April, 1973 , 


The representative of the workman objected against the 
appearance of Shri P . S . Nair, Advocate, on behalf of the 
Colliery . Shri P . S . Nair in his reply has stated that he was 
not appearing on behalf of the Colliery but in his capacity 
as the Industrial Relations Secretary , Central India Coal 
Fields Mining Association and as an officer of thọ Associa 
tion of employers connected with the ladustry in question 
ho was entitled to appear in the present proceeding on behalf 
of the Colliery . No one appeared on behalf of the work 
man op 20 - 2 - 1973 and 21- 2 - 1973 when the case came up 
before this Tribunal. Shri Nair is present in Court today but 
neither the workman nor his representativo is present be 
fore the Tribunal today . I neod not go into thọ question 
whether Shri P . S . Nair is competent to appear on behalf 
of tho Coliery . There is nothing on the record to substan 
tiate the allegations made on behalf of the workman and 
it is not possible for mo to hold that the action of Chhote 
lal, Contractor, in stopping Ramdayal, Supervisor, from his 
work with effect from 7 - 2 - 1972 was not justified . My award , 
therefore, is that Chhotelal Contractor of the Colliery of 
M /s . Pench Valley Coal Company Limited , P . O . Parasia , 
District Chhindwara , was justified in stopping from work 
Ramdayal with effect from 7 - 2 - 1972 and I mako my award 
accordingly , I make no order for costs . 

S . N . KATJU , Prçsiding Officer 

[No. L . 22012 /33 / 72 -LRII ] 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

CUM -LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Jabalpur, the 6th April , 1973 

Case Ref. No. CGIT /LC( R ) (44) of 1972 
Present: 

Mr. Justice $. N . Katju — Presiding Officer. 
(Notification No . L / 22012 / 33 / 3372- LRI dated 24 - 10 -1972 ) 
Partler: 
Employers in relation to Shri Chhotelal Contractor, 

Chandametta Colliery of Messrs Pench Valley 
Coal Company Limitod , Post Office Paragia , District 
Chhindwara ( M . P .) and Shri Ramdayal, Super 
visor, represented through the Satpura Koyala 
Khadan Mazdoor Congress , P . O . Parasla , District 
Chhindrara ( M . P .) 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 26th April, 1973 


S . O . 1286 . - In the notification of the Government of 
India , in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Depart 
ment of Lab . and Employment) No. S . O . 174 , dt, the 6th Jan . 
1973, published at pages 247 and 248 of the Gazette of 
India , Part- J , Section 3 , Sub - Section ( ii ), dated the 20th 
January , 1973 , on pago 247 in lines 6 and 7 for " the agent, 
South Bulliari Kendwadih Group of Collieries of Mesgrs , 
East Indian Coal Company Limited , Post Office Mohuda, 
District Dhanbad" , read " The Bhatdeo Colliery of Messrs . 
Bengal Bhatdce Coal Company Limited , Post Office Mohuda , 
District Dhanbad " 


Appearances : 

For employers - Shri P. S . Nair , Advocato . 


For workman - Shri Ram Narain Singh , General Sec 

rotary , Satpura Koyala Khadan Mazdoor Congross . 


[No. L /2012 / 101 /71- LR TIJ 
New Delhi, the 27th April , 1973 
S . O . 1287 . — In pursuance of section 17 of tho Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), tho Contral Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government 


Industry : Coal Company 


Dlstrict : Chhindwara (M . P .) 


Sec . 3fii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1741 


Industrial Tiibunal No. 2 , Bombay in the industrial dispute 
l etween thc cmployers in relation to the Central Bank of 
Irdia and their workmen , which was received by the Con 
tral Government on the 23rd April, 1973 , 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL NO . 2 , BOMBAY 

Reference No. COIT -2 /4 of 1972 
Employers in relation to the Central Bank of India . 


AND 


Their workmen 


Present: 


Shii N . K . Vani- -Presiding Officer . 


Appearances : 

For the Employers — Shri G . R . Sheikh, Asstt . Law Officer. 


Tor the Workmen - (i) Shri A . M . Puranik , Vice President. 

(ii) Shri S . P . Chaudhari, President. 


5. According to him :-- 
(i) Shri B . K . Shrimali had applicd for a post of a 

pcon / Watchman in the Bank. He was called for 
interview and test. He was then given an appoint 
ment or ler under order dated 29 - 4 - 1969, annexure 1 
to the written statement Ex . 1 / W , as peon - cum 
watchman at Dhulia Branch . In order to circum 
vent the provisions of Sastry and Degai Award tho 
Bank issued appointment orders month by month 
and treated the permanent appointment as tem 
porary to deprive all benefits applicable to con 
firmed employees of the Bank . The appointments 
made by the Bank ard as Under - - 
Order dated Period 
29 - 4 -1969 29 - 4 - 1969 to 28 - 5 - 1969 – 1 month . 
29 - 5 - 1969 29 - 5 - 1969 to 28 - 6 - 1969 . - 1 month , 
28 - 6 - 1969 29 -6 - 1969 to 28- 7 - 1969 – 1 month . 
29 - 7 - 1969 29 - 7 - 1969 to 28 - 8 - 1969 - - 1 month , 
28 -8 - 1969 29 -8 - 1969 to 29 - 9 - 1969 _ 1 month . 
After five months continuous service in permanent 
vacancy the Sub - Agent served a termination order 
dated 20 - 9 - 1969 informing him that under instruc 
tions from the main oflice , his services would not 

he required from 29 - 9 - 1969. 
(ii) The Bank did not give required notice or notico 

pay as per provisions of Sastry and Desai Award 
while terminating the confirmed services of Shri 
Srimali. The termination order wag malafied and 
in contravention of the provisions of the Awards 
and Bipertito Settlement. The same was invalid 

and illegal. 
(iii ) As per the cartificate issued by the Sub -Agent, 

Dhulia Branch on 29- 9 - 1969, annexure 7 to the 
written statement Ex . 1 / W , the work , conduct and 

attendance were found good and satisfactory . 
(iv ) As per the Bank s recruitment Policy . Shri Shrimali 

was appointed after completion of all formalitios 
i.e . test and interview and was selected for a 
permanent post in a permanent post in a per 
manent vacancy . The order of temporary appoint 
ment dated 29 - 4 - 1969 was in contravention of the 
provisions of the Bank Awards and Bipartite Settle 

ment. 
( v ) After terminating the services of Shri Shrimali the 

Bank recruited several employees in Nagpur group 
und also at Dhulia Branch to fill in the vacancy 
caused due to termination of Shri Shrimali. The 
Bank did not reply the representation datea 
6 - 2 - 1971 made by Shri Shrimali for his appoint 

ment in the permanent services of the Bank , 
( vi) The Bank advertised the posts of peons, Chowki 

dars , urned -guards etc . on 22 - 1 - 1970 in "Nawa 
Bharat daily , Ex . 11 / W . The advertisement in 
this newspaper shows that there were several per 
manent vacancies for which posts were adver 
tised . 


Industry : Banking . 

Stute : Maharashtra . 
Pombay, the 22nd March , 1973 


AWARD 


By order No. L . 12012 / 48 / 71-LR . III, dated 4 - 3 - 1972 . 
the Central Government in the Ministry of Labour and 
Kchubilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) in 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - clause 
( 1) of Section 10 of the ID . Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) re 
ferred to this Tribunal for adjudication an industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Central 
Bank of India and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specificd in the Schedule as mentioned below : 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the action of the management of the Central 

Bank of India in terminating the services of Shri 
B , K . Shrimali, Peon - cum -Watchman at Dhulia 
Branch of the Bank was justified ? If not, to 
what relief is he entitled ?" 


2 . The facts giving rise to this reference are as follows: 
(i) Shri B . K . Shrimali was working as Peon -cum 

Watchman in Dhulia Branch of the Central Bank 
of India from 29-4 -1969. On 20 - 9 - 1969 the Sub 
Agent gave him notice , annexure 6 to the written 
statement Ex. 1 / W informing him that under ins 
tructions from the main office , his services would 
not be required from 29 - 9 - 1969. On account of 
this , the President of the Central Bank of India 
Staff Union raised industrial dispute with the 
Asstt. Labour Commissioner ( C ) Nagpur by his 
letter dated 10 -3 - 1971 annexure B to the written 
statement Ex. 1 / W . The Asstt. Labour Commis 
sioner ( C ), Nagpur tried to bring about concilii 
tion but in vain . He therefore submitted his failure 
of conciliation report to the Government, on 
31- 5 - 1971, annexure 10 to written statement Ex. 1 / W . 
After the receipt of this report the Government of 
India referred this dispute to this Tribunal for 
adjudication . 


( vii) As the termination of service of Shri Shrimali is 

illegal he he reinstated in Bank s service with effect 

from 29 - 9 - 1969, 
( viii ) It is prayed that: 
( 1) Shri B . K . Shrimali he declared Ag confirmed em 

ployec wilh effect from 29 - 4 - 1969 at Dhulia 
Branch , 


( 2 ) The Bank of directed to pay and implement all 

benefits of confirmation to the workman as per 
provisions of Bank Awards and Bipartite Settle 

ment. 
( 3 ) He be granted back wages for the period from 

29 - 9 - 1969 till the date of reinstatement. 


3 . In pursuance of the notice issued to the parties for 
Aling their written statements, both the parties appeared 
before me and filed their written statement. 


( 4 ) The order of termination served by the Bank 

on 20 - 9 - 1969 be declared as illegal and null and 
void . 


4 . Shri S . P . Chaudhari, President, Central Bank of India 
Stuft Union Nagpur has filed written statement Ex. 1 / W 
on behalf of the workmen . 


(5 ) The Bank be directed to pay compensation for 

illegal termination of the services of tho work 
mani , 


11 G of 1 /73 – 7 . 


1742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[ PART II 


VR 


6 . Asstt. Law Officer for the management of Central Bank 
of India has filed written statement at Ex. 2 / E . 


9 . The Bank has produced documents 48 mentioned 
below : 
( 1) Circular No. B .I. D . / STAFF /69 / 6 , dated 10 - 1 - 1969 , 

regarding Recruitment of Staff at Ex . 5 / E . 
(ii) Circular No . PRS / 71 / C .O . 9 , dated 4 - 2 - 1971, re 

garding appointment of Staff at Ex, 6 / E . 
( ili ) Circular No. PRS / 72 / C .0 . / 2 , dated 7- 1- 1972 , re 

garding confirmation at Ex. 7 / E . 
( iv ) Details of clerks and sub staff working in Nagpur 

Division at Ex. 8 / E . 
10 . The Union has produced documents as mentioned 
below : 


7 . According to him : 
(i) Shri Shrimali was not entitled to be appointed in 

the Bank because he did not comply with the 
point of requisite educational qualifications laid 
down by the Bank . Shri Shrimali was very much 
above the required qualification for the post of 
Peon -cum - Chowkidar 48 was asked for vide Bank s 
advertisement which appeared in Navbharat daily 
on 22 - 1 - 1970. In the said advertisement, it was 
mado clear that for appointments as peons, chow 
kidar, armed guards etc . the candidate Applying 
to be appointed as such should have passed mini 
made clear that for appointments as peons, chow 
had appeared for S . S . C . Examination held by 
Maharashtra State Board of Secondary Education 
Nagpur Divisional Board in the month of March , 
1968 and had falled in the same. Recruitment Çir 
cular of the Bank No . 4 of 1968 under the head 
ing Mode of Selection prescribed a set standard 
of educational qualification for recruitment to sub 
staff cadre , wherein it is said that. The maximum 
educational qualification for being considered for 
appointment to sub -staff cadre is upto Std . VII 
passed which should be at least 3 years below the 
qualification for matriculation . The Bank ob 
viously could not infringe the provisions of Re 
cruitment Policy framed by it and therefore could 
not accept candidates possessing higher qualiAca 

tion than that prescribed . 
( 1 ) The Date of Birth of Shri Shrimali also could not 

bo ascertaincd and as such tho management could 
not decide upon the date of birth of Shri Shrimali, 
As the applicant to gub - staff posts must be between 
18 to 25 years of age and as there was no corro . 
boration to the affidavit regarding the age filed 
by Shri Shrimali he could not be considered for 

employment in the Bank . 
(iii) Tho conduct of Shri Shrimali was not proper. Ho 

spread all sorts of rumours against tho staff at 
Dhullla Omce saying that he happened to be the 
then Chief Agent Shri J . J , Pinto s man . He was 
arrogant in his dealing with the staff and officers . 

Tho Bank could not retain such an employee. 
(lv ) Shri Shrimali worked at Dhulia from 29- 4 - 1969 to 

20 - 9 - 1969 on month to month oxtension basis . 
His appointment was against temporary vacancy . 
His services wero terminated by order dated 

29 - 9 - 1969 served on him by the Sub - Agent, Dhulia . 
(v ) It is not true that the Bank treated the permanent 

appointment as temporary ono to doprive Shri 
Shrimali of all benefits of confirmation and to cir 
cumvent the provisions of Sastry and Desai Awards 

do this regard 
( vi) The Bank served the termination notice on Shri 

Shrimali. The termination notice was not malafide 
and in contravention of the Bank Awards and 
Bipartite Settlement. It was not illegal. 


(1) Memo, Jated 20 -9 - 1969, regarding termination of 

services of Shri Shrimali, at Ex. 9 / W . 
( ii ) Service Certificate issued by the Sub -Agent to Shri 

Shrimali at Ex. 10 / W . 
(iii) Advertisement in the Navbharat dated 22 - 1- 1970 , 

ut Ex. 11 / W . 
( iv ) Details of temporary / permanent subordinate Ataff 

working at Nagpur Division , at Ex. 12 / W . 
(v ) Details of Temporary / permanent subordinate staff 

working between January , 1969 to June 1972 at 

Nagpur Division , Ex. 13 / W . 
(vi) Details of Staff members working Bhausahebnagar 

between January, 1969 to June 1972 , Ex . 14 / W . 
(vii ) Statement of Temporary Permanent subordinate staff 

working at Ramdaspeth from January . 1969 to 

June 1972 , Ex. 13 / W . 
( viii) Statement of temporary / permanent subordinato 

staff members working at Cotton Market Amravati 

at Ex . 16 / W . 
. 11. It may be noted that neither the Bank nor tho 
workman Shri Shrimali has come in the witness box to give 
cvidence . 


12 . From the pleadings and documents on record tho 
following points arise for decision in this reference . 
(i) Whether the action of the management of the Central 

Bank of India in terminating the services of Shri 
B . K . Shrimali, Peon -cum -Watchman at Dhulia 

Branch of the Bank was justified ? 
(ii) To what relief is entitled ? 
(iii ) What order ? 


13. My findings Aro as follows : 

(i) No . 
( il) Entitled to reinstatement . 
(ili) As per order . 

REASONS 


Point No. 1 


(vii ) Shri Shrimali was not selected for a permanent post 

in a permanent vacancy . 
(viii) Appointment in Sub - staff cadre was made at several 

places in Nagpur Group, including Dhulia , after 

Shri Shrimali s services were terminated . 
(ix ) Thero was no question of conducting a departmen 

tal enquiry against Shri Shrimali before terminating 
his services because Shri Shrimali was nowhere 
booked for any misconduct whereby an enquiry 
will be necessary to impose any punishment or 
otherwise on him . 


14 . The workman Shri Shrimali was appointed to work 
as a pcon -cum -Watchman on temporary basis for one month 
at Dhulia Branch of the Central Bank of India , by the Sub 
Agent under Memo. dated 29 -4 - 1969. This Memo. ls AS 
follows: - - 
" Shri Bansilal Kishanlal Shrimali, Dhulia . 
" With reference to his application 17 - 4 - 1969 to Nagpur 

Shri Bansilal Kishanlal Shrimali is hereby inform 
ed that he has been taken up to work as peon -cum 
Watchman on temporary basis for one month only 
from to - day on a basic salary of Rs. 86 and dear 
ness allowance oť Rs. 96 . 32 . The above dearness 
allowance is subject to rovision in accordance with 
rise and fall in cost of living index. 


in 


( x ) The interpretations of the circulars and provisions 

of the Awards and Bipartite Settlement made by 
the Union are not correct . Tho workmen is not 
entitled to any relief. 


8 . Shri S . P . Chaudhari, President, Central Bank of India 
Staff Union Nagpur has filod rojolnder at Ext. 4 / W leny 
ing the allegations made by the Bank in its written statement 
Ex , 2 / E 


Notwithstanding anything contained in this letter big 

services are liable to be terminatod at the solo 
discretion of the Bank without assigning any reason 
or reasons . 


Sec . 3 (ü ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1995 


1743 


TU 


If Shri Bapsilal Kişhanlal Shrimali is agreeable to accept 

the appointment on the above terms and condi 
tions, he should return the duplicate copy of this 
Memo, duly signed by him and report for duties 
immediately . 


Tegular in attendance and work and that the contention raised 
by the Bank that his conduct was not proper cannot be 
accepted . Henco this could not be the ground for not 
continuing Shri Shrimali in service from 29 - 9 - 1969 . 


$ d / 
Sub - Agent. 


I accept. 


23 . Shri Sheikh contends that Shri Shrimali had appeared 
for S . S . C . Examination hold by Maharashtra State Board 
of Secondary Education , Nagpur Divisional Board , that he 
failed in that examination and that inasmuch as he was having 
more qualification than prescribed for sub - staff , he could 
not be continued in service . This contention has been 
raised in the written statement Ex . 2 / . 


B . K . Shrimall." 


15 . Shri Shrimali accepted the terms of appointment men 
tioned in the Memo. icferred to above and joined the services 
of the Bank at Dhulia Branch , as peon - cum - watchnian . 
Thereafter his gervices were extended from time to time for 
& pcriod of one month each time as mentioned in the 
Memos. dated 29 - 4 - 1969, 29 - 6 - 1969, 29 - 7 - 1969 and 28 - 8 - 1969 , 
produced on record 5 annexure Nos. 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 res 
pectively to the written statement Ex. 1 / W . 


24 . The Bank has produced circular No. 4 of 1968, re 
garding Recruitment of staff alongwith Ex . 6 / Ę . Para 
7 (6 ) B subordinate Staff relating to mode of selection prog 
cribes qualification . It is as follows: 


16 . It is clear from the above mentioned facts that Shri 
Shrimali was in continuous services of the bank as Peon 
cun -Watchman at Dhulia Branch from 29- 4 - 1969 till 
29 -9 - 1969 t.e . for a period of five months. 


" (6 ) Mode of Selection . 
(1) Qualifications : Knowledge of the regional lan 

guage , both reading and writing except for Armed 
Guards and Sweepers. Matriculates will not be con 
sidered for appointment to Sub - Staff Cadre. The 
maximum oducational qualification for being con 
sidered for appointment will be upto 7th Class 
Pass , which should at least be 3 years below tho 
qualifications for Matriculation and he should have 
studied English for at least 2 years." 


17. On 20 - 9 - 1969 the Sub- Agent issued a Momo, informi 
ing Shri Shrimali ibat under instructions from the main 
office his services would not be required with effect from 
29- 9 - 1969, annexure 6 to the written statement Ex. 1 / W . 
By this mcmo. tho services of Shri Shrinnuli from Dhulia 
Branch of the Central Bank werç torminated with effect from 
29- 9 - 1969. 


25. It is clear from the above provision that the maxi 
mum educational qualification for being considered for 
Appointment to gub -staff will be upto 7th Class pass , which 
should be at least 3 years below the qualifications for mat 
riculation and he should have studied English for at least 2 
years . This provision supports the contention of the Bank 
but in my opinion this contention cannot be given any 
weight. 


18 . Shri Sheikh representative for the Bank contends that 
tho conduct of Shri Shrimali as peol- 71071-watchinan at 
Dhulia during the period of his service was not proper, that 
Shrimali was spreading remours amongst the staff that he 
was the man of the then Chief Agent, and that he was 
urrogant in his dealings with the staff and officers . 


26 . The Bank admits in its written statement Ex. 2 / Ế 
Para , 3 that Shri Shimali had applied for the post of Peon 
cum -Watchman in the Bank and that he was called for the 
test and intervlow , 


19 . The Bank has taken this contention in the written 
statement Ex. 2 / E , but it has not adduced any evidence 
to show that the conduct of Shri Shrimali was not proper , 
that ho was spreading rcmours and that his behaviour was 
Ariogant during the tenure of his service at Dhulia Branch , 
No colleague of Shri Shrimali serving in Dhulia Branch has 
been examined to speak about his conduct. There is no 
written warning regarding the conduct of Shri Shiimali on 
record before me. The burden is on the bank to show that 
Shri Shrimali s conduct was not proper during the tenuie 
of his service but it has clearly fuiled to discharged the same. 


27 . It is only after the test and Interview on account of 
Shrimali s application , he was appointed as Peon -cum -watch 
man at Dhulia and continued thero for a period of five 
months. It can be inferred from this that the Bank had 
condoned the over - qualification of Shri Shrimali whilo ap 
pointing him as Peon - cum -Watchman . Once it has con 
donod this over -qualification it cannot now say that he was 
not entitled to continuo in service because of the over - qualifi 
cation . 


28 . The Union has produced details of temporary / per 
inanent subordinate staff at Ex . 12 / W to 16 / W . It appears 
from these documents that thero aro certain gub -staff work 
ing in the Bank who are also non-matriculateş . This fact 
shows that the Bank condoned the over -qualification . 


20 . Shri Shrimali has not come in the witness box but 
there is a certificate dated 29- 9 - 1969 bearing the signature of 
the Sub -Agent, produced at Ex. 10 / W . This certificate is 
as follows: - - 
" This is to certify that Shri Bansilal Kishanlal Shrimali 

was working in this office as Pe011 - c11 :- Chowkıdar 
from 29 - 4 - 1969 to 28 - 9 - 1969 ( both duy inclusivo ). 
During this period his conduct was found to be 
good and he was found to be regular in attendance 
and work . " 


29 . Shri Sheikh contends that Shri Shrimali has not pro 
duced documentary evidence to show that he was bet 
ween 18 to 25 years of age and that as there was no con 
vincing evidence regarding the age required for appoint 
ment , he should not be continued in service . This conten 
tion cannot be also accepted . 


21. It is clear froni the above mentioned certificate that 
during the period of Shri Shrimali s tonurç in Dhulia as 
Peon -cum - Chowhidar has conduct was found to be good 
and he was found to be regular in attendance and work . 


22 . It is not tho cuse of the Bank that the Sub - Agent of 
the Dhulia Branch has not issued the certificate Ex . 10 / W , 
and that it is aforged document produced by the employec . 
What the Bank contends that the local agents are not all 
thorised to issue good conduct certificate and that only the 
Chief Agent can issue such certificates. Apart from the 
facts whether the Sub - Agent is authorised to issue good 
conduct certificate or not there can be no doubt that this 
certificate Ex. 10 / W speaks about the conduct and regular 
attendance of Shri Shrimali during his tenure at Dhulia 
Branch 49 Peon -cuina- Chowkidar . In my opinion This certi 
ficato is good piece of evidence which clearly proves that 
conduct of Shii Shrimali was good and that he was very 


30 . Shri Shrimali had filed affidavit in support of his ago 
before the Bank . The management relied upon the affidavit 
and appointed him as Peon - cum - Chowkidar. Once the Bank 
hag accepted the age , it could not discontinuo him from 
service on the ground that Shri Shrimali did not produce 
documentary evidence to show that he was between 10 to 
25 age at the time of his appointment. If there would have 
been any complaint and any evidence before the Bank that 
hc was overage and that he had deligerately given wrong 
age for getting appointment, tho mattor would have been 
different and the Bank would have insisted for documentary 
evidence. In view of the fact that the Bank appointed Shri 
Shrimali and continued him for five months , it could not 
discontinued his service on the ground that Shri Shrimali 
had not produced any evidence in support of his affidavit 
regarding age. The Appointment order nowhere mentioned 
that Shri Shrimali would not be liable to continue in service 
unless he would produce documentary evidence in support 


(PART II - 
1744 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 
- 

= = = = 
- - - - - 
of his affidavit in respect of age . In the absence of such 36 . Para . 20. 8 of the Bi-partite Settlement is as follows: 
conditions , the Bank canoot now sav that Shri Shrimali can 

" A temporary workman may also be appointed to fill 
not continue in service for want of documentary evidence 

a permanent vacancy provided that such temporary 
regarding his age . 

appointment shall not exceed a period of three 

months during which the bank shull make arrange 
31. Shri Puranik for the Union contends that the notice 

ments for filling up the vacancy permanently . If 
of termination of service dated 20 -9 - 1969, referred to above 

such a temporary workman is eventually selected 
is not valid and legal becauso it was only for 8 days and 

for filling up the vacancy , the period of such 
not for 14 days as required under para . 522 of the Sastry 

temporary employment will be taken into account 
Award . Section IV in the Sastry Award relates to pro 

as part of his probationary period." 
cedure for termination of employment. It is as follows: 

" 522 . We now proceed to the subject of termination of 37. It is not the case of the Bank that Shri Shrimali was 
employment. We give the following directions: 

appointed for a limited period for work which was of an 

cssentially temporary nature or he was employed tempo 
( 1 ) In casey not involving disciplinary action for mis rarily as an additional workman in connection with a 

conduct and subject to claust (6 ) below , the en temporary incrcase in work of a permanent nature 
ployment of a permanent employce may be ter or he was appointed in temporary vancancy caused by the 
minated by three months notice or on payment of absence of a permanent workman . Hence he could not be 
three months pay and allowances in lieu of notice. 4 temporary employee within the meaning of para . 20 . 8 
The services of a probationer may be terminated 
by one month s notice or on payment of a month s 38 . Shri Shrimali was appointed as temporary peon -cum 
pay and allowances in lieu of notice. 

chowkidar at Dhulia Branch and his services were extended 

from month to month basis. He continued ther for a period 
(2 ) A permanent employee desirous of leaving the ser 

of five months i.e . from 29 -4 - 1969 to 28 - 9 - 1969. 
vice of the Bank shall give one month s notice in 
writing to the Manager . A probationer desirous 
of leaving service shall give 14 days notice in 

39 . As the post of peon - cum - chowhidar is a permanent 
writing to the manager, A permanent employee and as Shri Shrimali was continued in this post on tempo 
or a probationer shall, when he caves service , rary basis for more than three months, it amounts to vio 
be given an order of relief signed by the manager . lation of the provisions of the Bipartite Settlement para . 

20 .8 . 
( 3 ) If any permanent employee lcaves the service of 
the Bank without giving notice , he shall be liable 

40 . It also appears that the Bank has violated the prin 
to pay the Bank one month s pay and allowances . A 

ciples embodied in the Bipartite Settlement viz . Paras. 20 . 7 
probiiuioner , if he leaves service without giving 

to 20 . 11. 
nolice, shat DC luble for 14 days pay and 
allowances . 

41. Term 1 of the Settlement dated 23 - 12 - 1971, between 
(4 ) The services of any employee other than a per the Central Bank of India and the All India Central Bank 

manent employes ac probationer may be termina Eoployees Federation shows that employees who bavo 
ted , and he may wave service , after 14 days notice. been appointed in the Bank s service originally on or after 
If such an employee leaves service without giving 1 - 7 - 1966 , and were given brcaks in the scrvice not exceed 
such notice he shall be liable for a weak s pay ing three days excluding Sundays and Bank holidays , will 
( including all allowances)" . 

be considered as having been confirmed on the permanent 

staff after six months from the date of their original ap 
32 . Para . 522 (4 ) referred to above lays down that services 

pointment, and that such members of clerical and subordinato 
of any employee other than a permanent employee or proba 

staff will also be entitled to contribute towards Provident 
tioner may be torminated after serving 14 days notico . 

Fund from the date of their confirmation as per this agree 
There can be therefore no doubt that for terminating the 

ment and the due dates of their graded increments will be 
services of temporary employee 14 days notice has to be adjusted accordingly . 
given as per the provisions ol Sastry Award . In the present 
case the Bank has failed to give 14 days notice and con 

42 . It is clear that as per term 1 of the agreement, Shri 
travened the provisions of para . 522 ( 4 ) of tho Sastry Award . Shrimali would have been entitled to confiệmation after 
As the Bank has failed to givo 14 days notice for cermi completion of six months service but his services were ter 
nating the services of Shri Shrimali, the termination of ser ininated after completion of five months service . At the 
vices of Shri Shrimali by notice dated 20 - 9 - 1969 is illegal time of terminating his services by notice dated 20 - 9 - 1969 , 
and improper . 

Ex. 9 / W , the Bank has not given any reason . It is not 

the case of the Bank that his services wer terminated because 
33 . Shri Sheikh for the Bank contends that Shri Shri the post in which he was working ceased to continue . If 
mali s employment was contractual one , that it was a term the post in which he was worhing as pcon -CN1 - chowkidar 
of contract that his services would be liable for termination ut Dhulia continued to exist , there was no reason for the 
at the sole discretion of the Bank without Assigning any Bank to discontinue Shri Shrimali s services all of a sudden 
reasons, and that on account of this there is no question of under the instruction from the Main Office . In the absence 
giving any notice to Shri Shrimali. As Shri Shrimali had of those instructions from the Head Office on record , it is 
accepted the terms of contract he cannot claim anything not possible to find out as to what those instructions were . 
beyond those terms. What Shri Sheikh wants to say is Hence the only inference that can be drawn from the Bank s 
tbut the termination of services of Shri Shrimali by 8 days action in terminating the services of Shri Shrimali after 
notice is quite valid , legal and proper . I am unable to five months service at Dhulia Branch without assigning any 
accept this contention 

specific reason is that it wanted to depriyo him of getting 

the benefits of confirmation , 
34 . In view of the specific provisions in the Sastry Award 
referred to above , it was incumbent on the Bank to give 43. As the various branches of the Bank were taking 
14 days notice to Shri Shrimali before terminating his 

up temporary hands to fill up the posts which are of per 
services. As it failed to do so it cannot be said that ter 
mination of services of Shri Shrimali on the basis of notice 

minent nature and continuing them on tomporary basis in 

discriminately in violation and continuing 
of termination in question was proper and legal. 

them on tempo 

Türy basis indiscriminately in violation of provisions of Bi 
35. Shri Puranik for the workman contends that the Barik 

partite Sottlement paru . 20. 8 , the head office had issued 
bas followed unfair labour practice in giving temporary 

directed to its branches vide Ex . 7 / E . It is as follows: 
appointment to Shri Shrimali in permanent vacancy 4t 

" We send herewith a copy of the settlement arrived at 
Dhulia branch and in continuing him more than 3 months 

between the Management and the All India Central 
on temporary basis and in terminating his services at the 

Bank Employees Federation for the information 
end of five months , with a view to doprive him of getting the 
benefits of permanency. 

of Branches . 
In support of this contention he 
relies on various provisions of the B1- parito Settlement viz . 

The Management and the AJ. C . B . E . F . had to arrive 
Paras. 20 . 7 to 20 . 01 and the settlement dated 23 - 12 - 1971, 

at this settlement for reasons mentioned in the 
between the Bank and the All India Central Bank Em 

short tacital of the case in the settlement. Appoint 
ployeos Federation . 

ments of hands for clorical and subordinate cadre 


1745 


Sec , 3 ( ü ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


were being made to fill up permanent vacancies 
by controlling Branches indiscriminately and with 
out following any principlc 01 bearing i mind 
the provisions of paru . 20 . 8 of the Bipartile Settle 
ment and their leniporary services were beiny 
renewed again and again after giving a break of 
2 to 3 days . These temporary handy who were 
being kept on temporary basis for months togo 
ther in the same vacancy have claimed that they 
should be treated as taken up on probation from 
the date of their initial appointment, and the pre 
sent settlement has been arrived at to resolve this 
issuc. To avoid such situation arising in future 
controlling branches are advised that temporary 
appointments should not normally be made except 
when the vacancy is of a temporary nature or in 
every cmergent cases for which also prior appro 
val of the Personnel Department should be ob 
tained . The services of these temporary hands 
should be terminated on the expiry of the stipula 
ted periods . Anyway no member should be allowed 
to continue as temporary hand for more than 3 
months . Agents of controlling branches will 

please bear this in mind for the future . 
According to the terms of this agreement, the following 

two categories of members who were initially taken 
on temporary basis will be ticated as taken up on 
probation from the original date of thoir appoint 
ment on temporary basis and confirmed effective 
from the date of expiry of six months from the 

original date of appointment on temporary basis 
1. Employees taken up on temporary basis on and 

after 1 - 7 - 1966 and their tenijority Services were 

continued giving breaks not exceeding thice days . 
2 . Employees who were taken up prior to 1 - 7 - 1966 

but not earlier than 1 - 1 - 1959 and whose tem 
porary services were continued without any 

break . 
It will be observed from the settlement that the Au 

India Central Bank Fmployees Federation has 
agreed not to claim arrears of increment and other 
benefits in regard to those members who will now 
be treated as confirmed in the Azak s service on 
the expiry of six months from the date of their 
initial appointment is temporary hands. The AI 
Jadiu Central Bank Employcos Federation will also 
not take up supersession of thoir cases for pre 
motion to higher cadres . However their names 
will be included in future seniority List which will 
be drawn by the Groups as on 1st March und ist 

September of every year. 
Please let us have a list of the members of the clerical 

and subordinate staff at offices in your Group who 
fall under each of the two categories mentioned 
above giving full particulars of their names, desig 
nation, Branches where working, details of tem 
porary appointment, duration of breaks and the 
date on which they were taken up on probation . 
These particulars may be forwarded to Personnci 

Department to reach us belore 31st Januy, 1972." 
44. It will be clear that us the various branches were 
following unfair labour practice in appointing temporary 
hands in permanent posts and continuing them beyond thrce 
months in violation of the piovisions of the Bipartito Settle 
ment and terminating their services, the head office of the 
Bank hud to issue circulars and enter into settlment from 
time to time to redie s the gricvance of the employees 

45 . In case of discharge of workmen under the contract 
of service or under the Standing Orders the requirement of 
bona fide is sine quo non , millal ficle oi colournble exei 
cisc of contincital of Stellutory power is 1101 legal exercise 
of such power. In support of this proposition ( refer to the 
commentary given in the Law of Industrial Disputes by 
Shri Malhotra on the basis of Supreme Court Judgements 
as at pages 895 and 896 . It is as follows: 
" The question of the cniployers Creedom ot contact in 

the context of industrial adjudication was consi 
dered by the Supreme Court in Rai Bahadu Dewan 
Badri Dis V . Inclustunl Tubulol, crored in 
1962, II , IIS 

Tonthship Justice 
Gajendianchor perhap lo the 11 . osily wiw The 
doutrine of absolute teedom of contract has 
thus to yield to the higher claims for social justice 
. . . . . . the right to dismiss an employee is also 


controlled subject to well-recognised limits in order 
to guarantee security of tenure to industrial em 
ployees . Hence in industrial Law , the claim of 
the employer to terminate the service of his work 
men under the contract of employment or in the 
Standing Orders by giving him a notice or by pay 
ing him wages in lieu of such notice amount, to a 
claim of hire and fire on employec . Such claim 
would negative sccurity of service which has been 
secured to industrial cmployecs through industrial 
adjudication and the process of collective bargain 
ing evolved from long- drawn strike. Hence, before 
the action of discharge or dismissal by way of 
punishment for 2 misconduct can be taken agaiast 
a workman under the contract of service or stand 
ing orders , the requirement of bona fide is sine quo 
ral justice to draw up a regular proceedings against 
him . Furthermore even in cases of discharge of 
a workman under the contiact of service or stand 
ing orders , the requirement of bona fide is sing quo 
non as mala fide or colourable exercise of a con 
tractual or statutory power is not legal exercise 

of such power . 
If under the garb of termination simplicitor the employer 

ucts mala fide or with the intention to penalise the 
concerned workman , it would be colourable exercise 
of the power , victimization or unfair labour practice 
and the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdic 
tion to intervene and set aside such termination 

(1966 , I, LLJ, Page 398) " . 
46. As the Bank has violated the provisions of para . 20.8 
in connection with the appointment of Shri Shrimall and as 
it terminated his service on the basis of contract of servico 
with a view to doprive him of getting the benefits of con 
firniation it can be inferred that the exercise of powers in 
terminating the services of Shri Shrimali on the basis of 
contract of service by the Bank was colourable . Hence the 
termination of service of Shri Shrimali was not proper and 
just and this Tribunal has jurisdiction to interveno ond set 
uside the termination . 

47. As Shri Shrimali is entitled to reinstatement he us 
also cntitled to get back wages from the date of dischargo 
till the date of reinstatement 

48. Shri Sheikh has given application dated 13 - 2 - 1973 in 
Bombay on 15 - 2 - 1973 before me after the arguments in this 
CASC were heard at Nagpur. Henco notice was issued to the 
Union to show caugo . 

49 . The Union has sont reply OD 7 - 3 - 1973. It is as 
followa: 
" 1 . That the party II Bank vide their application dated 

13 - 2 - 1973 (received on or about 26 - 2 - 1973 ) stated 
that Shri Shrimali is gainfully employed . In this 
respect, it is submitted that the statement by the 
Party i Bank is baseless and irrelavent. The 
Bank has not produced any evidenco in respect of 

the said statement. 
It is therefore humbly prayed that the application dated 

13 - 2 - 1973 be dismissed ." 
50 . The Bank has not produced any evidence saying that 
Shri Shrimali has been employed gainfully at his native 
place in Udaipur District 10 Rajasthan , since he left the 
Bank s service and that he still continuo in service 

51. The employee has also not come before me to deny 
that he is not employed . In these circumstances it will be 
in the interest of both the parties , to direct that the work 
man should apply to the appropriate Labour Court under 
Section 330 ( 2 ) of the I. D . Act, 1947 for getting the arrears 
of wages determined . Ends of justice will meet if I direct 
in this reference that Shri Shrimali is cntitled to get back 
wages from the date of discharge till the dato of reinstate 
inent minus the earnings made by him on account of service 
during this period if any and to get the Arreas of wages duy 
to him by the Bank determined in a proceeding under 
Section 330 (2 ) of the I. D . Act, 1947. 
52 . In the end I pass the following order : 
(i) It is horeby declared that the section of the manage 

ment of the Central Bank of India in terminating 
the services of Shri B . K . Shrimali, Peon -cum 
Watchmon at Dhulia Branch of the Bank was not 
justified , and that he is entitled to reinstatement 

and continuity of service . 
( ii) It is hereby declared that the applicant is eatitled 

to back wages from the date oi discharge till the 
dute of reinstatemont minus the carpings made by 


[PART 11 — 


1746 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


him on account of service if any during this period 
and that he should get the arrears of wages due to 
him by the Bank determined by filing application 
under Section 330 ( 2 ) of the I. D . Act, 1947 to the 
appropriate Labour Court, 


of Shri S . Thangavelu during the pendency of discl 
plinary proceedings against him is justificd ? If not, 
to what relief is the said Thangavelu entitled ?" 


( iii) Award is made accordingly ; 


( iv ) No order as to costs . 


N . K . VANI, Presiding Officer 

[No. L . 12012 /48 / 71 -LRIII ] 


S . O . 1288 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Madras in tho industrial dispute between the en 
ployer in relation to the State Bank of India and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government 
on the 24th April , 1973 . 


BEFORE THIRU G . GOPINATH , B . A ., B . L ., PRESIDING 
OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, MADRAS. 

(Constituted by the Central Government). 
Monday, the 9th day of April, 1973 
Industrial Dispute No. 41 of 1972 


(In the matter of the dispute for adjudication under section 
10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 hetween the 
workmen and the Management of State Bank of India , 
Madras- 1 ). 


2 . The relevant facts are not in dispute , One Shri Thanga 
velu , the employee concerned in this cage , was a head clerk 
in what is now designated as the Madras Main Branch of the 
Ştate Bank of India . The Bank has a scheme, whereby it 
assists its employoes to buy scooters and motor cycles , by 
providing 80 per cent of the cost of the vehiclo , repayablo 
in not more than 48 monthly instalments, with interest at 
2 - 1 / 2 per cent. The conditions of the advance are that the 
employco should utiliso it to buy a scooter or motor cycle 
as the case may be, within a month of the date of payment 
of the advance apd ( 2 ) he should produce to the Bank , the 
registration certificate of the vehicle, within a month of avail 
ing of the advance and execute 4 hypothecation agreement 
like Ex , M - 2 , hypothecating the vehicle to the Bank . Shri 
Thangavelu applied for an advance of Rs. 2 , 500 for the 
purchase of a scooter And executed an agreement in the 
form exhibited as Ex. M - 1 and reccived the loan on 
24 - 1 - 1969 He did not purchase a scooter within the stipu 
lated period of one month . Under the terms of the agree 
ment, he had to repay the loan inmediately . The manage 
ment called upon him on 31 - 5 - 1969 to return the advance 
and also informed bim that if he failed to refund the advance , 
he would be liable for disciplinary action (Ex . W - 1 ) . This 
was followed by another letter from the Bank to Shri Thanga 
velu dated 31- 5 - 1969, asking him to refund the advance with 
interest at 9 - 1 / 2 per cent per annum ( Ex , W - 2 ) . As there 
was no compliance with these letters, a charge memo dated 
4 - 9 - 1969 was issued to Shri Thangavelu , specifying two 
charges against him . The first charge was that he having 
Availed of a loan of Rs. 2 ,500 for the purchase of scooter 
under the Bank s scheme, had neither purchased a scooter 
nor repaid the advance and that at the time he availed the 
loan , he had no intention to purchase a scooter and that ho 
had mis - used an amenity offered to members of the staff 
and obtained the advance by a misrepresentation and put the 
money to wrong use , and thereby committed an act prejudi 
cial to the interest of the Bank and hence a grogg misconduct 
in terms of para 512 ( 4 ) ( ) of the Sastry Award read in 
conjunction with paragraph 18 .28 of the Desai Award . The 
gecond charge was an act of wilful in -subordination for 
disobedience of lawful and reasonable orders of the manago 
inent in that, despite repeated reminders, he neither executed 
a B Form (Ex, M - 2 ) , nor closed the loan account within 
the stipulated time, Shri Thangavelu submitted an explana 
tion and thereafter a domestic enquiry was held on the 
charges by one Shri S . Venkatachari, a Staff Officer of the 
Bank . This was on 8 - 4 - 1970 . The enquiry officer found 
Shri Thangavelu guilty of the first charge and exonerated 
him of the second (vide the findings Ex. M -6 dated 1 - 7 - 1970 ) . 
By its letter dated 23- 7 - 1970 , the management proposed to 
award the punishment of stoppage of increment for a period 
of one year (Ex . W - 5 ) . Shri Thangavelu submitted his 
explanation against the proposed punishment in terms of 
Ex. W -8 dated 28 - 8 - 1970 . Under Ex. M - 7 dated 16 - 9 - 1970 , 
the management passed an order under paragraph 521 ( 3 ) ( d ) 
of the Sastry Award read in conjunction with paragraph 18 . 28 
of the Dosai Award , stopping the increment of Shri Thanga 
velu for one year , and he was informed that his next incte 
ment would fall duo on 1 - 4 - 1971. Against this order of 
punishment, Shri Thangavetu preferred an appeal to the 
appellate authority , who declined to interfere . 


BETWEEN 


The workmen represented by : 


The General Secretary, State Bank of India Employees 

und Sub -staff union , Hussainy Mansions, 36 /37, 
Angappa Naicken Street , Madras -1 , 


AND 


The Secretary and Treasurer, State Bank of India , North 

Keach Road , Madras - 1. 


Reference : 


Order No. L . 12012 / 43 / 72 /LRIII dated 26 - 9 - 1972 of 

the Ministry of Labour and Rchabilitation , Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment, Government 
of India , New Delhi. 


This dispute coming on for llnal hearing on Saturday the 
17th day of March , 1973 upon perusing the reference, claim 
and counter statements and all other maiciind puncis on re 
cord and upon hearing the arguments of Thiru K . S . Jana 
kiraman , Advocate for the workmen and of Thiruvalargal 
M . R . Narayanaswamy and N . Balasubramanian , Advocates 
for the Bank and having stood over till this day for consi 
deration , this Tribunal made the following . 


AWARD 


This is an industrial dispute between the Management of 
the State Bank of India and their workmen referred for 
adjudication by the Government of India in respect of the 
matter specified in the schedule annexed to the order of re 
ference. The schedule is as follows : 


3 . At the time of the charge sheet, Shri Thangave ! ų was 
drawing a pay of Rs. 465 cxclusive of allowances . Being an 
employee who joined the services of the bank prior to 
31- 1 - 1950 , his annual increment fell due on the first of April 
cach ycar, as per the provisions of the Sastry Award . Nor 
mally , he would have reached the maximum in his scale on 
1 -4 - 1970 as per the revised scales of pay finalised in Septem 
ber , 1970 , which would have become effective as from 
1 - 1 - 1970 . The basic pay of Shri Thangavelu as on 1 - 1 - 1970 
was to be Rs. 515 and with effect from 1 - 4 - 1970 , Rş. 550 . 
The complaint of the Union is that Shri Thangavelu became 
entitled to his annual increment, which would have taken 
him to Rs. 550 with effect from 1 -4 - 1970 and that it was 
illegal for the management to have withheld this increment, 
as from 1 -4 - 1970. It is further alleged by the Union that 
by withholding the increment due to Shri Thangavelu on 
1 - 4 - 1970 and imposing the same as a punishment by its order 
dated 16 - 9 - 1970 postponing the next annual increment of 


" Whether the action of the Management of the State 

Bank of Indiu in withholding the annual increment 


1747 


THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


Sec . 3 ( ii) 1 


other words, tho withholding of his increment was not as a 
punishment for any proved misconduct or gross inefficiency . 
There can be no doubt that on the face of it , the action of 
the management in withholding the increment of Shri 
Thangavelu on 1 - 4 - 1970 was in violation of the terms of 
the Sastry Award , inasmuch as it directs that such with 
holding of increment can be made only by way of punish 
ment. 


Shri Thangavelu to 1 - 4 - 1971, the management not only 
deprived shri Thangavelu of his annual increment which fell 
duo on 1 -41970 itself, together with all the other attendant 
benefits but also had deprived him permanently of his 
personal pay , for the rest of his service. 

4 . Though in the claim statement, the Union has prayed 
for & direction that the punishment of stoppage of one incre 
ment imposed by the management by its order dated 16 - 9 - 1970 
is void and therefore liable to be set aside, the prayer in 
the rejoinder is to hold that the action of the management 
in withholding the increment duo to Shri Thangavelu on 
1 - 4 - 1970 was illegal, inasmuch as the increment was not 
withheld on any punishment for any proved misconduct on 
that day , and that even if there was a disciplinary action 
pending against him , there was no justification for the 
management to withhold the incroment, which Shri Thanga 
velu was entitled to on 1 -4 - 1970 . It is also contended that 
the management had no power or justification to give retros 
pective effect to the order of punishment of stoppage of 
increment passed on 16 - 9 - 1970 . In the light of the order 
of reference, it is clear that the correctness of the order of 
punishment dated 16 - 9 - 1970 is not in question . The subject 
matter of the reference is the propriety of the action of the 
management in withholding the annual increment of 
Shri Thangavelu , during the pendency of disciplinary pro 
ceedings. 


6 . Thiru M . R . Narayanaswamy, the learned counsel for 
the management however argued that the direction in the 
Award is that increment should normally be given , that it is 
not therefore automatic and that when a misconduct is 
allcged , or an enquiry is pending against the employee , the 
circumstances are not norinal and that therefore the em 
ployee cannot complain when he is not given his increment, 
under such circumstances . It is true that a charge- sheet 
had been issued to Shri Thangavelu on 4 - 3 - 1969 and that on 
1 - 4 -1970 when the increment was due to him , an enquiry 
into the charge was pending and hence he was under a 
cloud . But I certainly cannot see eye to eye with Thiru 
Narayanaswamy s contention that this would afford a right to 
the management to withhold the incremnent of Shri Thanga 
velu on 1 - 4 - 1970, on the basis that the circumstances, so far 
as he was concerned , were far from normal. Para 85 of 
the Sastry Award should not be read in isolation but has 
to be road with Para 86 , which gives the cluic to the meaning 
of the word normally in paragraph 85, and it shows that 
the abnormal circumstancc contemplated by the Award is 
the dwindling of profits , and was so considered by the Şastry 
Tribunal. This has been approved by the Desai Award. In 
fact, when 85 itself directs that the stoppage of increment 
should only be by way of proved misconduct, it is idle to 
contend that just because there is a charge pending against 
the employce , which , on that date , had not been proved , his 
increment could be withheld . In this connection, I may 
repeat the observations in the Sastry Award to the effect that 
the giving of increment should not be regarded as a matter of 
bounty , at the sweet will and pleasure of the management. 


ICT 


5 . The question whether the Management of the State 
Bank of India was justified in withholding the annual incre 
ment of Shri Thangavelu during the pendency of disciplinary 
proceedings against him , that is, with effect from 1 - 4 - 1970 , 
has to be answered primarily if not solely on the 
basis of the dircctions in the Sastry Award and the Desai 
Award , Para 85 of tho Sastri Award deals with tho quostion 
of the grant of increments. Since it has been accepted and 
reproduced in substance in the Desai Award para 3. 117 , that 
portion of the Sastry Award need alone be referred to . It 
reads thus : 
"Workmen should normally have the benefit of the 

annual increments as a matter of course , provided 
there is not a substantially good reason to deprive 
them of the same either becauso of their mis 
conduct or grogg inefficiency . The wage scale has 
to be so devised that it provides for the growing 
nceds of the workmen and his family , Stoppage 
of increment, therefore , is more or less by way of 
punishment. The giving of increments should not 
be regarded as a matter of bounty at the sweet will 
and pleasure of tho management. At the same 
time, the management should have the right to sco 
that workmen keep up the normal standard of 
efficiency and not lapsc into indifference and ineff 
ciency because of the assured prospect of an incre 
mental scale. We, therefore, direct that increments 
should normally be given and stoppage of incre 
ments by management should be only by way of 
punishment for proved misconduct or gross ineffi 
ciency . Ag a working rule , if in the provious year 
there are three adverse remarks in the service 
register of the workman entered against him as a 
result of the management s enquiry into his con 
duct and after consideration of any explanation 
given by him , it may be taken as a prima façle 
caso for stopping the increment at the next stage 
and for the next year. If an employee s increment 
is to be withheld it should only be done after a 
proper charge -sheet has been framed against him 
and ho has been given adequate opportunity to 
defend himself. The order in writing withholding 
the increment should also mention whether it will 
have the offect of postponing future increments." 


7 . It is then urged by the learned counsel for the manage 
ment that what was done by the management was only to 
defer the payment of Increment by reason of the fact that 
there was an enquiry pending against Shri Thangąvelu , that 
it was purely a tentative decision , and that tho Sastry Award 
does not prevent the management from deferring or postpon 
ing the increment. I am unable to agree with this argument 
either . There is nothing in para 85 of the Award which 
allows the management to defer the increment at any stage. 
There was also no intimation sent to Shri Thangavelu that 
his increment was being deferred . In fact, at no stage before 
the conclusion of the domestic enquiry against Shri Thanga 
velu was he informed that his increment was deferred . Fur 
thermore , I fail to see any real distinction between deferring 
and withholding of increment. Thiru Narayanaswamy no 
doubt drew my attention to the meaning of the words 
withhold and defer in the Concise Oxford Dictionary , which 
says that withholding is refusal to grant whereas deferring is 
postponing or putting off. But it must be noticod that when 
the management postponed the increment, they in effect 
withheld it ; for , an employee is normally entitled to his iD 
crement and when you do not give his increment when it 
is due, you are only withholding it, which the management 
is not justified in doing, in view of the Sastry Award , except 
in a case of proved misconduct or gross incfficiency. Thore 
fore , the management cannot justify its stand in not giving 
the increment to Shri Thangavelu on 1- 4 - 1970 on the basis 
that there was no prohibition in the Sastry Award from de 
forring increment pending departmental enquiry . 


It is clear from the above that increments should be granted 
to tho employce as a rule and withholding thereof is an 
exception . It is further explicit that the stoppage of incre 
ment by the management should only be by way of punish 
ment for proved misconduct or gross inefficiency . It is 
equally manifest that if an employee s increment is to be 
withheld or stopped , it should be only after t charge- sheet 
has been framed against him and he has had an opportu 
nity to defend. Admittedly , Shri Thangavelui was not given 
his increment on 1 - 4 - 1970 , which he was normally entitled 
to . Therefore , thero was a withholding of his increment on 
1 -4 - 1970 and this was obviously long before the conclusion 
of the disciplinary proceedings against Shri Thangavelu . In 


8 . Thiru Narayanaswamy then invited my attention to 
Ex. W - 11 , which refers to an agreement betwoen the manage 
ment and the All India State Bank of India Staff Federa 
tion , whereunder the management was allowed to defer ganc 
tion of increments against employecs against whom disciplinary 
proceedings were pending for a period of 9 months from 
the date when the annual increment fell due. The present 
Union , that is , the State Bank of India Employees Union 
is admittedly not a party to that agreement. The agreement, 
it will be noticed , runs contra to the specific directiong In 
the Sastry Award . Further , this agreement is subsequent to 
the disciplinary action taken against Shri Thangavely . There 
fore , Ex , W - 11 can in no way help the management to 
Justify its stand that in spite of the Sastry Award , it could 
defer the payment of increment to Shri Thangavelu as and 
from 1 - 4 - 1970 . There can bo no doubt that the management 
when it failed to give the increment due to Shri Thangavelu 


1748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[PART II — 


on 1 -4 -1970 withheld his incrcment. According to Para 85 
of the Sastry Award , it can only be done after a proper 
charge sheet has been framed against him and he had been 
given adequate opportunity to defend himself. This envisa 
ges that such withliolding of increment could only be after 
the enquiry was over and when punishment was imposed on 
him . The order of punishment is dated 16 - 9 - 1970. What 
the management did from 1 - 4 - 1970 to 16 - 9 -1970 was to with 
hold the increment and thereafter to stop it by the order 
dated 16 - 9 - 1970 (Ex. M -7 ) . In other words , the manage 
ment had withheld the increment that fell due and payable 
to Shri Thangavelu as and from 1 -4 - 1970 , even beforo he 
had an opportunity to defend himself . This is clearly in 
violation of the Sastry Award , 


1 -4 - 1970 was also challenged . It is therefore not correct to 
say that the dispute in the piesent form was never raised 
by the Union . The learned counsel for the management 
also reljed on the decision in " Sindhu Resettlement Corpora 
tion , Ltd . Vs. Industrial Tribunal." ( 1 ) . In that case, the 
Union had requested the management for payment of 
retrenchment compensation and did not raise any dispute for 
reinstatement. It was held by the Supreme Court that since 
no such dispute for reinstatement was raised before the 
management, the State Government was not competent to 
refer the question of reinstatement as an industrial dispute 
for adjudication by the Tribunal and that the State Govern 
ment could have only referred the dispute relating to pay 
ment of retrenchment compensation . This decision can be 
of no assistance to the management, since the Union has, 
in this case , questioned thc right of the management to 
withhold the increment of Shri Thangavelu , during the pen 
dency of the disciplinary proceedings against him . Thus, 
on the first part of the reference, I have to hold that the 
action of the management of the State Bank of India in 
withholding the increment of Shri Thangavelu , pending dis 
ciplinary proceedings, is not justified . 


9 . The tearned counsel for the management argued that 
the management had passed the order Ex . M - 7 after a proper 
enquiry , that its propriety is not challenged and since that 
order has stopped the increment of Shri Thangavelu as and 
from 1 - 4 - 1970 , the Union cannot have that order vacated 
or set aside in an indirect manner which would be the result 
of holding in favour of the Union in this reference . We 
are here concerned only with the justification of the action 
of the management in withholding the increment of Shri 
Thangavelu on and from 1- 4 - 1970 , pending disciplinary 
proceedings . We are not now concerned with what the 
management could or could not do on 16 - 9 - 1970 in exer 
ciso of its disciplinary powers . The validity of Ex. M - 7 is 
beyond the pale of this controversy . Undoubtedly, the 
management has not paid the increment of Shri Thangavelu 
on 1 -4 - 1970 when it was due andin go withholding tho 
increment the management acted contrary to the direction in 
the Sastry Award . I do not gec any force in the contention 
of the learned counsel for the management that it is in 
cumbent on the Union to question the propriety of Ex. M - 7 
itsolf and that so long as that is not done, the Union can 
not question the action of the management in withholding 
the increment of Shri Thangavelu , with effect from 1 - 4 -1970 . 
It was also urged for the management that Ex. M - 7 could 
have retrospective operation . The operative part of Ex . M - 7 
reads as follows : 
" Accordingly, your increment is stopped for a period of 

one year in terms of paragraph 521 ( 5 ) ( d ) of the 
Sastry Award read in conjunction with paragraph 
18 .28 of the Degai Award . Your next increment 
will fall duo on 1st April , 1971 subject to your 
conduct and work being satisfactory." 


11 . The latter part of the reference deals with the re 
lief, to which Shri Thangavelu is entitled. At the time when 
the charge sheet was issued to Shri Thangavely , he was 
drawing a basic pay of Rs. 465 per month , excluding allow 
ances, in the time scalo 156 - 8 - 180 - 10 - 200 - 15 - 290 -25- 490 . There 
was admittedly a revision of scales of pay , finalised in 
September, 1970 , but which became cffective on and from 
1 - 1 - 1970 , when the basic pay of Shri Thangavelu was 
Rs. 315 per month , exclusive of allowances. It is further 
clear from Ex. W - 17 that the basic pay of Shri Thangavelu , 
with cffect from 1 - 4 - 1970 was to be Rs. 550 . That is to 
say, had Shri Thangavclu become entitled to his annual ip 
Crement on 1 - 4 - 1970 , it would have taken his pay to Rs, 550 
with effect from that date, as against Rs. 515 which he was 
drawing on 1 - 1 - 1970 . He would also be entitled to a 
personal pay of Rs. 35 as per Ex . W - 17 from 1 -4 - 1970 . He 
Dearness Allowance would also be increased consequently , 
Thus, the monthly benefits which he would be cntitled to 
for the period 1 - 4 - 1970 to 16 -9 - 1970 , had his increment not 
been withheld would be as follows : 

Arrears of Increment : Rs. 192 . 50 
Personal Pay 

: Rs, 192 . 50 
Dearness Allowance : Rs, 190 , 00 


Rs. 575.00 


It is worthy of notice that the order does not specifically say 
that the increment of Shri Thangavelu has been stopped 
from 1 - 4 - 1970 . That has to be implied from the order, since 
It says that his next increment will fall due only on 1 -4 - 1971. 
I am unable to hold that the management is in order in 
giving retrospective effect to Ex. M - 7 . What has, in fact, 
happened in this case is that the punishment has preceded 
the finding : for the increment had been witbheld even on 
1 - 4 - 1970 . It is true that the management has tho power to 
impose the punishment of stoppage of increment, but that 
could be only in respect of future increments and not in res 
pect of increments falling due prior to a finding of misconduct 
or gross incfficiency. The management has not shown any 
authority in justification of its action in not paying the incro 
meat to Shri Thangavelu on and from 1 - 4 - 1970 ; that is to 
say, before the date of Ex. M - 7 . To put it differently, the 
management is not entitled to withhold or stop tho annual 
increment with retrospective offect on account of the pen 
dency of disciplinary proceedings in the absence of any pro 
vision in the Sastry Award , empowering tho management to 
do so . 

10 . I have to notice onc more argument of Thiru Nara 
yanaswamy for the management. Ho contends that the 
demand of the Union was , at all material times, for vacating 
Ex . M -7 and that tho presont disputo in the form presented 
in tho roference was never taken up by the Union before and 
that therefore the reference is untenable and invalid . In 
this connection , he refers to Ex. W - 10 to W - 12. Ex. W - 10 is 
the letter of the Union to the Regional Labour Commis 
sioner ( Central) dated 16 - 4 - 1971, in which the Union has 
requested the management to rescind Ex . M -7 . Ex . W - 12 is 
again another letter addressed to the Regional Labour Com 
missioner ( Central ) , rolterating this demand , among others . 
It is true that the Union was at all material times pressing 
for the recession of the order dated 16 - 9 - 1970 . At the same 
time, from Ex . W - 10 , it is seen that the action of the manage 
ment in withholding the increment of Shri Thangavelu from 


Shri Thangavelu would be entitled to be paid this amount. 

( 12 ) In the result, an award is passed accordingly, Dated . 
this the 9th day of April , 1973, 

G . GOPINATH , Presiding Officer, 

WITNESSES EXAMINED 
For both sides : None . 

DOCUMENTS MARKED 
For workmen : 
Ex, W - 1 /9 - 5 -69 — Letter from the State Bank of India to 

Thiru S . Thangavelu asking him to refund the 

advance , 
Ex . W - 2 /31-5 -69 - do- - 
Ex. W - 3 / 30 - 10 -69 — Notice of enquiry issued to Thiru 

S , Thangavelu by the State Bank of India , 
Ex . W - 4 /21- 3 -70 - Notice issued by the Enquiry Officer 

to Thiru S . Thongavelu notifying the date of onquiry . 
Ex , W - 5 / 23 - 7 -70 _ Letter from the State Bank of India 

to Thimi S . Thangavelui proposing to award punish 

ment. 
Ex , W -6 / 28 - 7 -70 — Letter from Thiri S . Thangavelu to 

the State Bank of India requesting to furnish copies 
of Enquiry Proceedings and Findings and to post 

ponc the hearing, 
Ex, W - 7 / 5 -8 - 70 -- Letter from the State Bank of India to 

Thiru S . Thangavelu postponing the hearing for 
28th . 


Sic . 3 ( ii ) ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 1749 
- - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- -- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - --- - - - - - 

- - - - - - 

- - - - - = 
Ex . W -8 / 28 -8 -70 - - Explanation by Thiru S. Thangavelu 

AWARD 
lo Ex. W - 5 , 
Ex. W - 9 — Appeal by Thiru S . Thangavelu against the 

This industrial dispute between the employers in relation to 
order of the Disciplinary Authority . 

the Management of the State Bank of India , and Shri A . R . 
Ex. W - 10 / 16 - 4 - 71 - Letter from thc Union to the Regional 

Bhatt, a workman of the bank in respect of the matter spe 

vilied in the schedule was under clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
Labour Commissioner ( Central ) , Madras requesting 

of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , referred 
for conciliation . 

for adjudication to the Central Government, Industrial Tri 
Ex. W -11 /26 -11-71 -- Letter from the Assistant I aboui 

bunal, Lombay, by the order of the Government of India , 
Commissioner ( C ), Madras to the Union cnclosing 

Ministry of Labour, Employinent and Rehabilitation , (Deport 
a copy of letter dated 17 - 11-71 of the State Bank 

ment of Labour and Employment) No. 23 / 8 /69 / LR III , 
of India . 

catcd 24th December, 1970 . As the worknian concerned in 

the dispute requested the Central Government for the transfer 
Ex. W - 12 /21 - 12-71 — Letter from the Union to the of the cusc from Bombay to Ahmedabad and as the Central 

Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Madrus Government considered the request as reasonable , in exercise 
requesting to direct the Bank to restore the in 

of the powers conferred by section 7A and sub - section ( 1 ) 
increments . 

ui cction 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, the 

Central Government withdicw the proceedings in relation 
Ex. W - 13 /21- 8 -65 — Stuff circular No. 43 regarding to the said dispute pçnding before tho Central Government 

revision of pay scales of clerical and cash depart Industrial Triburial, Bombay , and transferred the same to me 
7,10 it and subordinate staff. 

by their Order No. 23 / 8 /69 / LR III, dated 17th February , 
Ex, W - 14 / 1 - 8 - 67 — Staff circular No. 60 regurding reví 

1971 , with a direction to proceed with the said proceeding 

from the stage at which they were transferred and dispose of 
sion of pay scales of clerical and cash deraitment the same according to law , 

and subordinate staff. 
Ex. W - 15 / 18 -3 -70 — Stall circular No. 21 regarding - do 

The dispute that is referred to me is as follows : 
Ex . W - 16 /3 -4 -70 _ Stall circular No. 24 regarding -do 

Whether the action of the Management of State Bank 
Ex . W -17 /23 -9-70 — Starr circular No . 44 regarding -do 

of India , Bhudra , Ahmedabad , was justified in ter 
For Management : 

minating the services of Shri A . R . Bhatt, Clerk - of 
works, with cffcct from the 7th December 1968 ? If 

not, to what relief is he entitlod ? " 
Ex. M - 1 - Form A agreement (skeleton form ). 
Ex . M -2 - - Form B agreement (skeleton form ) . 

In this matter, the statement of claim was filed by the 

worker on 20th day of January , 1971. 
Fx. M -3 /4 -9 -69 — Charge sheet 

The 
issued to Thiru S . company filed a written ştatenient on 26th day of February , 
Thungavelu ( copy ) . 

1971. In the said written statement, no preliminary objection 
Ex. M -4 Letter from Thiru S . Ihangavelu to the State 

as such was taken by the Baak . However , in para ( 2 ) of 
Bank of India stating that 

the statement of claim , the workman , inter alia , stated that 

the advance will be 
repaid within a month ( copy ) . 

hc was a workman under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 

and was covered by the terms and conclitions of the Shastri 
Ex. M -5 / 8 -4 -70 — Enquiry proceedings ( copy) . 

and Desai Awards and certain settlements. In para ( 7 ) of 

the statement of clain , he has inter alia , further stated 
Ex . M -6 / 1 -7 -70 - - Findings of the Enquiry Officer that he was at workman under the Industrial Disputes Act, 
( copy ) . 

1947, and that Shastri Award and the Desai Award and the 

various setticmcnts and agreements between the Bank and the 
Ex. M - 7 / 16 - 9 - 70 % Order of the Management stopping workmen applied to him and the fact that he was a tem 
increnient for a period of one ycar . 

porary scrvant does not disentitle him to the protection of 

the aforesaid awards and settlements . 
G . GOPINATH , Presiding Oficer . 
Note : The parties are directed to take return of their Dealing with para (7 ) of the statement of claim , the Bank 

document / s within six months from the date of tho in its written statement denied that Shri A . R . Bhatt is a work 
award , 

man under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as contended . Tho 

Bank denicd that the Shastri Award or the Desai Award 
[No. 12012 / 43 / 72 -LR III ] or thc various settlements and agreements between the Bank 

and the workmen apply to the workmen as contended . To 
S . O . 1289 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial this written statement filed by the Bank , a written rejoinder 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government was filed by the worker on 25th day of March , 1971, to 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri which the Bank filed a Rejoinder , dated 11th August, 1971 . 
bunal, Ahmedabad in the industrial dispute between the In part ( 5 ) of the Reply , the workman has stated that he 
employers in relation to the State Bank of India and their was on the Bank staff as per the appointment order and was 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government a workman as per the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , his 
on the 24th April, 1973, 

salary being Rs. 500 p .m ., and the service conditions as 

are applicable to workman staff of the Bank are applicable to 
BEFORE SHRI INDRAJIT G . THAKORE , PRESIDING 

him . In the written reply to the Rejoinder , the Bank has, 
OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

inter alia , stated as follows : 
AHMEDABAD 
Reference (ITC ) No. 1 of 1971 

“ The respondent denies that the applicant is a workman 
BETWEEN 

within the definition of the Industrial Disputes Act 
The Management of the State Bank of India , Ahmedabad . 

as alleged . The respondent submits that the appli 

cant s appointmeot was for purely teniporary and 
AND 

contractual and the provisions of Award , Agreement, 
Shri A , R , Bhatt. 

Settlement etc , applicavle to other members of the 

staff did not apply to him . The respondent denies 
In the matter of terminating the services of Shrl A . R . 

that the service conditions as are applicable to the 

workman staff of the respondent are applicable to 
Bhatt, Clerk of the Works. 

the applicant as allcged. The respondent submits that 
Appearances : 

as the applicant is not a workman within the mean 

ing of Industrial Disputes Act and as the Agrcement, 
Shri G . G . Mehta , Advocate for the Bank. 

Award , Settlement etc . do not apply to him , thiş 

TIonourable Court has no jurisdiction to entertain 
Shri N . J. Mehta , Advocate-- for the Workman . 

the application in question ." 
11 G of 1 /73 _ 8 


1750 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[PART II- - 
-- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = = - - 

- - -- - --- - --- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - -- 

ing unless the reasons, therefore , are indicatod as has been 
Neither in the written statement nor in the rejoinder , this done now , viz., that he is not a workman because he is 
preliminary point as such was raised by the Bank. In the not employed in an industry as defined in the Industrial Dis 
case of the reply , however, the Bank denied that the appli putes Act, 1947, As also because he is employed in a super 
cant was a workinan under the Industrial Disputes Act. No visoy capacity and his salary per month exceeds Rs. 500 
reasons why he was not a workman under the industrial Dis In any event, the preliminary point ought to have been can 
putes Act according to the Bauk , have been indicated in the vassed before the evidence of the workman started . This is 
written statement or in the subsequont reply 

particularly so because the point raised is certainly not a pure 

question of law but the answer would depend upon facts 
After the matter was ready for hearing , the hearing started 

whether the activity in which he is employed by the Stato 
and the workman was examined by his counsel. Bofore , 

Bank of India constituto8 an industry or not as defined in 
however , the evidence started no written application or oral 

the Industrial Disputes Act, whether the duties performed by 
request was made to this Tribunal to determine the issue the workman were of a supervisory naturo or not and whether 
whether the applicant was a workman under the Industrial his salary per month excceds Ro. 500 or not , which are 
Disputes Act, 1947 , and whether this Court had , therefore , 

all questions of fact and the determination of the preliminary 
jurisdiction to determine this question or not. After the evi 

issues raised depends on the determination of these facts . 
dence of the applicant was over, Shri K . Vankatachari, Chief To say the least, this is extrenicly unfair to the applicant. As, 
Officer (Law ) was examined on behalf of the Bank . There however, these are questions which go to the root of my 
after, the cyidence concluded and shri N . J . Mehta , Advocate 

jurisdiction and as they wero indicated though vaguely in the 
for tho workman , extensively made his submissions to this 

written statement, though not as they should have been , I 
Tribunal. After Shri Mehta concluded his arguments , Shri 

have not disallowed their raising this preliminary objection . 
G . G . Mehta , counsel for the Bank , began to make his sub 

No application has been made on behalf of the workman 
missions that this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to determine 

that they desire to lead further cvidenco in view of the ques 
this issue as the applicant was not a workman under the 

tion being raised in this manner at a later stage . In the cir 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , Ho was , therefore , called 

cumstances, I am dealing with the preliminary points raised 
upon by me for the sake of convenience to make submis in the light of thọ cvidence that has been produced . 
siong in writing of a preliminary nature which he proposed 
to argue . The workman was also called upon by me to give 

As stated earlier, the preliminary objections have been re 
a written reply to the preliminary contentions raised by the 

duced to writing and are on record . For all practical purpose , 
Bank which were given and put on record . In the sanie , 

they may be recast as follows : 
objection has been raised on behalf of the applicant to allow 

( 1 ) That the applicant was not a workinan inasmuch as 
the Bank to raise the preliminary contentions now at this 

he was employed in a supervisory capacity and drew wages 
stage. The objection taken is in this form : 

exceeding Rs. 500 per mensem . 
" The Bank has vaguely stated in its written statement 

(2 ) The activity in which he was employed , viz ., the ox 

tension or building construction work of the Bank was not 
that the applicant is not a workman . But no pat 

an industry as defined in Section 26 ) of tho Act He was 
ticulars or facts or grounds on the basis of which 
the Bank contends that he is not a workman have 

not employed in industry inasniach as the extension of the 
been set out. On the contrary , the Bank contended 

building construction work of the Bank wheroin he was em 
before the Conciliation Officer that tho applicant was 

ployed as clerk -of-works was not an induạtry as defined in 
A temporary employoe and was, therefore, not a 

Section 2 ( ) of the Act. 
Workman . Therefore , the applicant has always The first question which I shall deal with is whether he 
understood the aforesaid contention to cover only 

was employed in a supervisory capacity or whethe his duties 
the contention that the applicant is not a workman 

were of a supervisory nature. This has to be inferred from 
bocauso ho is a temporary workman . All other 

the oral evidence on record and on certain docuinçntary evi 
grounds on which the applicant is contended not 

dence . 
to be a workman are set out for the first time in 
the memo . of preliminary contentions. They have The applicant is a B . E . (Civil ) of the Gujarat University . 
not been mentioned in the written statement of the He was appointed in connection with the work for extension 
Bank at all. They raise mixed questions of law and of the original building of the Suite Bank as a cle : k -of -works , 
facts . The parties havo absolutely closed their evi In his cxamination -in -chief he has stated as follows : 
dence . The Bank should not be allowed to raise 
contentions which require factual basis to be laid . 

" I had to work on the site under instructions from the 
In view of the above , the Bank should not bo 

architects and consulting engineers and see that the 
allowed to raise the aforesaid contention because it 

work was carried out according to speciñcations. 
is not a pure contention of law but it raises & 

was working in a teclinical capacity and it required 
mixed question of law and facts and the proper 

technical knowledge. My duties consisted of inter 
factual foundation for the said contention has not 

alia checking the mixture , checking the bill of 
been laid in the pleadings." 

measurements subinitted by the contractor and sub 

mitting day to day report of the progress of the 
The Bank has submitted in reply that they had denied in 

work to consulting architect and engineer , I had also 
their written statement, dated 26th February , 1971, that the 

to check whether proper materials were utilised . All 
applicant was a workman under the Industrial Disputes Act, 

thesc duties required technical knowledgc " 
1947, in para ( 7 ) and submitted in para ( 8 ) that in the In his cross examination he has, inter alia stated as 
circumstances the application of the applicant may be dis follows : -- - 
missed ; that again in their rejoinder they had denied that the 
applicant was a workman within the definition of the Indus 

" I agree that the duties of a clerk of works include ( 1 ) 
trial Disputes Act and further that this Court had no juris 

day to day supervision on site ; ( 2 ) interpretation of 
diction to entertain the application . They havo submitted that 

drawings ( checking mix , lime, level, etc .); ( 3 ) co 
in the circumstancos they were entitled to mako submissions 

ordination between various contractors ; (4 ) checking 
in respect of this preliminary olyjection on the evidence pro 

of quality of work ; and (5 ) checking the bills sub 
duced ; that if the workman wanted to lead any evidence in 

mitted by contractors. Progress Report submitted by 
this respect since they had denied that he was a workman , 

the clerk -of -works includes work done during the 
he should have done so . The Bank has also submitted that 

day . The discussion of clerk - of-works with Archi 
there is even ample evidence beforo this Tribunal to como 

tects include ( 1 ) Reas ng for work not done ( 2 ) 
to a conclusion on the preliminary points raised . The Bank 

Particular and further details of work to be carried 
has further subinitted that the question of jurisdiction of this 

out. All our duties are subject to the final approval 
Tribunal is a question of law which can be raised at any 

from the architect and consulting engineer and the 
stage . 

clerk of the works cavnot make any change without 

our previous instruction in writing from architect 
It appears to me that there is considerable substance in 

and consulting engincer ." 
the objection raised by Shri N . J . Mehta on behalf of the Shri K . Venketachari, Chief Officer (Law ) of the State 
workman . In fairness, the Bank should have in their written Bank of India , has in his evidence , inter alia , stated As 
statement and reply ralsed thọ question of jurisdiction as a 

follows 7 
preliminary issue and not merely incidentally referred to it 
in their denials , A more dental that he is not a workman 

“ They work under the supervision of architects but ara 
under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, hardly has any mean 

under the administrativo control of the Bank officers. 


- - 


1751 
SEC . 3 ( ii ) ) 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1995 

= 
- - = 

- 

- - 
2. - TS - - - - 

= -- - 

- - 
= . -- - - - - 

- 
- - = . - - - - - - - - - - -- 

- - 
- 

- 

In Lloyds Bank Ltd ., and Panna Lal Gupta and others 
Their work primarily consists of supervising the con 
struction work on behalf of the Bank ," 

( reported in 1961, L . L .J ., Vol. ) , page 18 ), there was the 
question of payment of a certain allowance io certain persons 

and before a clerk could clain a special allowanco his work 
According to the Law Officer , again the post of premises on 

must appear to have some clement of supervisory character, 
gineer is entirely different from the post of a clerk - of -works, 

Their Lordships observed . 
The Workınan is defined in Section 2 ( s ) of the Industrial 

" The work that is done by the clerks in the audit 
Disputes Act, 1947 , and the portion relevant for our purpose 

department substantially consists of checking up 
is as follows : - - 

books of accounts and entries made in them . This 

checking up is primarily a process of accounting , 
" Workman " means any person (including an apprentice ) 

and the use of the word " checking " cannot be per 
cmployed in any industry to do any skilled or un 

mitted to introduce a consideration of supervisory 
skilled manual, supervisory technical or clerical work 

nature . The work of checking the authority of the 
for hire or reward , whether the terms of employ 

person passing tho Vouchor or to enquire whether 
ment be expressed or implied , and for the purposes 

the limit of authority has been exceeded is also no 
of any prouceuing under this Act in relation to an 

doubt work of a checking type but the checking 
industrial dispute , includes any such person who has 

is purely mechanical, and it cannot be said to in 
bçon dismissed , discharged or retronched in connec 

clude any supervisory junction . If we take into 
tion with , or as a consequence of, that disputc or 

account the six classes of clerks specificd in Cl. 9 , 
whose dismissal, discharge or retrenchment has led 

it would suggest that in respect of cach one of them 
to that dispute , but docs not include any such person 

there would normally be somo persons working undçı 
the persons falling in bạt clause ; in other words, 

a person claiming the status of a supervisor in CI, 
( iv ) who , being employed in a supci visory capacity , 

9 should normally have to supervise tho work of 
draws wages exceeding Give hundred rupees per men 

sornc others who are in a senso below him ." 
sem or exercises , either by the nature of the duties 

I wilcion they have observed .- - 
attached to the officc or by reason of the power 
vested in him , functions mainly of managerial 

" it was always a jnatter vi determining what the piiranry 
nature ." 

duties of an employee were did he do clerical or 

manual work ; iſ the answer was in the affirmative , 
The work " Supervise " has been defined in the " Webster s New 

he was 11 workwan ; were his duties of il sipervisory 
World Dictionary " as follows : 

nature , if the answer was in the affirmative , he was 

not a workinan . In considering the latter aspect of 
" L . super , over * videre , to see , to oversee or direct 

the problem industial adjudication geneially took 
(work , workers, a project, etc . ) ; superintendent." 

the view that the supervisor or officer should occupy 

i position of command or decision ind should he 
In order to be a workman , a person has to be cmployed to 

authorised to act in ceituin matters within the limits 

of his authority without the sanction of the inanager 
do any manual, clerical supervisory or technical work . It, 

or other supervisors. " 
however , does not follow therefrom that whenever a technical 
man is employed in an industry , it must be held that he is 
croployed to do technical work irrespective of the manner 

In Burmah Shill Oil Storage & Distribution Company of 
in which and the occassions on which the tec bnical knowledge 

India Ltd , and The Burnah Shell Management Staff Associa 
of that person is actually brought into use . Tho question 

tion and Others , ( reported in 1970 , II , LLJ, p . 590 ) the 
would be whether he is doing lcchnical work or he is doing 

question was whether a numbei of peryons described as junior 
supervisory work . Supervisory work has, however, always 

nianagement stuff who claimed to be workmen were workmen 
been understood as supervision over others and presupposes 

or not. From the said decision , it appears to me that the 
tho employment of a number of persons under him . That following principles follow : 
is the sense also in which the words used herein aro under 
stood and explained by the Supremo Court, 

( 1 ) l or an employee in in industry to be workman under 

S . 20 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, he must be cmployed 
The idea of u supervisor ordinarily presupposes a number 

lo do skilled or unskilled nianual work , supervişciy work , 
of persons working under him whether skilled , semi- skilled 

technical work , or clerical work . If the work done by an 
or unskilled . His duty is to allot and distribute work , to see einployce is not of such a nature, he would not be a 
whether they work properly or not, to initiate if necessary , workman . 
disciplinary proceedings , recommend or grant Icave etc . This 
may involve even some kind of technical knowledge , but if ( 2 ) Whec un ensployee is required to do more than onc 
his duties consist of overseeing the work of others und kind of work , ie , where h would be doing Ianual work 
dilecting them , he would be a supervisor, but the essential as well 119 Supervisory work , or clerical work as well as 
idca of supervision appears to be a person overseeing the upervisory work , or technical work as well as clerical work , 
work of a number of others. In the first instance , from the the principle now well settled is that he must be held to be 
duty list given this essential requisite of supervisory work employed to do that work which is the work he is required to 
does not appear to be satisfied. The work of construction of do even though he may be incidentally doing other types of 
extension of the premises is entrusted to a contractor. It is work or , in other words . what wcrc his principal and main 
the contractor who brings his incn , supervises the work and 

luties . 
is responsible for carrying out the work as per specifications. 
There is not an iota of cvidcocc , not even 7 suggestion mado ( 3 ) That whenever it technical man is cmployed in an in 
at the hearing that the workmen of the contractor who work , Justry , it does not follow that he is employcal to do technical 
under the direction and control of Shri Bhatt, or that Shri work irrespective of the manner in which anel tbe occasions 
Bhatt exercises any kind of jurisdiction or control over them . 

on which the technical knowledge is brought into wwe . 
There are also no workers or assistants employed under Şliri 
Bhatt and it is common ground that Shri Bhatt is the only 
person employed for this work by the Bank. He is working, 

( 4 ) If a person s work depends upon special mental train 
if at all, under the directions of the architect. 

ing or scientific or technical hnowledge and if a man is en 

His duties 
us detailed by them were to check the mixture check the 

ployed because hc possesses such faculties and they enable 
bilis submitted by the contractor , submit day to day report 

hun to produce something as & certain of his own , he will 
of the progress of the work to the consulting architect and 

Have to be held to be einploye , on technical work even though 
to check whether proper materials were utilised . 

in currying out that work he may have to go through a lot 

It is true 
that in the cross examination he has stated that the duties 

of manual labour . If a man is merely employed in super 
of a clerk - of-works include day to day supervision on site , but 

ving the work of others , the fact that for the purpose of 
the supervision referred to is not supervision over the contractor s 

proper supervision , he is required to have technical knowledge, 
men , or control and direction over the contactor s men , but 

Hill 1101 conveit his supervisory work into technical work . 
the Supervision is as to checking the materials used , checking In the light of these principles they have condere wocther 
the quality of work and checking whether work was accord . number of catcgories like transport engineers , district co 
iny to specifications or not. This , in iny opinion , is very ginecis , forman (chemicals ), 
different from supei visory work and is work of & technical 

fuello superintendeuis 

ind chemists, sales engineering 
nature . 

representatives , 
bluxling supervisors , foreman , et ,, ale doing ( echnical work 


- 


1752 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 . 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

(PART II 

- - - - -- - - - 
Oi Supervisory work , but it is apparcnt from the dişullysions for different categories of workinen falling within the 11101csajul 
of their Lordships 111 1espect of eich category that oniy those two broad classes by special allowances. In paragraph 162 uf 
who had a certain numbc; 01 mcn working under them and its wild the Shasini Cubunal his observed that it was but 
whose work they were cresceing have been considered as sight that persons with special qualifications or skill rcquiied 
doing supci visoy work . This, the transport engincer had 58 for discharging work cari ying with it greater responsibility 
persons working under hin ). Amongst these 58 poisons, 13 tha11 routine work should have higher emolunients than an 
were mechanics, 22 fitteis , 3 turneja , 2 welders , 5 Juto -elec ordinary wohnun . The Shasily Tribunal considered the vari 
tricians, 2 carpenter s, 3 pnlcis dacl the remaining 8 were UUS ways by wliich the exlia payment may be provided for 
semi-skilled or unskilled m « / d00 9. Shri G . G . Mehta has ind observed that it would be simpler on the whole to solve 

clied on one 01 two obses vution of their Lordships of the the pioblem ly pioling for a lump sumllowance called 
Supreme Court. However , I do not think those one or two spiccial allowance in each ol such cases where it considered 
observations can be torn out of the context. It was clearly the canc will called fos and provided the varying allowances 
put to the witncas as follows. 

foi different categories of employees . Thç categories that were 

50 eutillet to weic devided into 9 and Category 9 consisted 
" I put it to you that you are employed principally to of supervisory , Superintendents , Sub -accountants , deputniental 

surei visc . contiol and co -ordinate the activities of in charges , employees in charge of licas y pay otice * The 
the continutats and the company s men in the district question both in the Lloyds Bank Case did in the (we now 
for all the construction and maintenanco work ? " 

relical upon by Shri G . G . Mehta Waló whether soin person19 

ful! in this calcgory 9 und were entitled to the special allow 
His answer was : - - " Yes , that is true." 

1140 provided for that sugory . The question did .iut USO 

foi consideration at all 5 10 what cutics wcie contenidited 
The district enginec" , theicfore , wis employed principally to 

as Y ciVISOIVlinder Section 2 ( 5 ) of the Industrial Dispute 
Supervine , control and couldinote the activities of the contrac 
tors and the company s inen in the district for all construction 

Ici. [ t appears to me that in the time of te Shashi Award 
and maintenance work and his dutie , weic , therefore , consi 

the duíinition of the word wushun was different and did 

not 16ude person doing superviso , y work . This Wels included 
dered to bo supervisory. Tliey have futher observed .- - 

only after the mendirent to the definition of women in 
On the other 11 . 0d , It appears that the piincipal work , 

1966 l ven before the Dusui Award both all the time of 
for which he is oployeu , is that of super vision in 

the Shastri Awaral and Desar Award there was no evidence 
asmuch as he is required to supervisc work donc by 

about the duties of a Sipervisory natuic Jischarged by various 
others instead of doing the work himself " 

persons in various banks. This is cry clear from para 5.217 

(pige 130 ) of the Dewi Award . In the circumstances , in my 
It also appeared that he contiolled and directed the work of 

opinion , this decision 11 . no hearing at Jl on the interpretil 
draughtsman , fitters and paintci s thioughout the district. 

tion of Section 21 ,) of the ludustrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 


The forman ( che uiculs ) duties were considered and he had 
20 workmen under him in the chemical department , including 
checkcis , gancial worknicn , packers and chemical mixcis Ilc 
adınitted that he allotted work to the workman under him 
who were 20 in number. Tujihet , he had another 21) workmen 
under him for lory Gilling of ruinace oil, Though he denied 
that he was responsible foi their discipline, he admitted that 
he mahes reports to the officer -in -charge whenever an occasion 
alises. He 1cLonniends the promotion of the min working 
under him and he is entitled lo select a person for acting 
in a higher capacity for the day when tho pci soni occupying 
the higher job is absent . 


It appears to me, therelore , from these and a large nuäiber 
of other ciccinicons which iced nut he rulared to tat onc 
of che hential ingredienis to consider to be supervisory duties 
hits been that the persoll niust have a number of persons 
working under him whose work he superviscs. Shri Bhatt 
undoubtedly had no persons working tinder hin ) . llc WAS 
not having any supervisory power over any of the workers 
of the contactos. To wis citllet Slipeivi , ng the .terials 
usert or checking lhether the work was called out crurding 
lo specifications or checking the bill, which were submitted by 
the contractor , thungs very diflcrunt from supcivising the work 
of men . I am , therefore , of the view thet Sui Bratt was 
not cmployed in a sure, visory Capacity but mis en pluyed to 
do technical work . 


The fuciling superintendon s duties were held not to be 
supervisory als it was clou that the niain and substancial work 
which he did not that of supervisiog the work done by the 
few workinen who agsted him , but his own manual wolk 
which he carried out at the depot as well us when delivering 
oll to the aircraft, 


In All India Resci e Punk Employees AS50C .,ition und an 
other and Rcycive Bank of lucid und another ( ercitcul in 
1965, II, ILI, p . 175), Their Lordships of the Supreme Court 
observed . 

. . . . . . . . Iliesc employees Jistributs work , delect 

faults icport for penilty . make arrangements foi 
filling vacancies , to inention only a few of the duties 
which ac slipervisory and not increly clerical. " 


But cien if Shi Bhatt was cmployed in a supervi oi y capel 
city hu would not cle to be a woman . He would only 
cease to be a workmon if he dicw Wages cyceeding Rs. 500 
per mensen or encicred either by the nature of the dutie . 

thed to the ori, co by reason of the rower vested him 
functions orainly oli mingcrial nature . It is not tho 
hanks case that he was accising lunctions mainly of a 
inauguial nature in the circumstances , even if he was 
cipion in a supervisory capacity hy would still bc it work 
man unless he diew waves ceding Rs. 500 per mensem . 
Now , there is no dou ll that he was being raid Rs. 500 
per mensen Even the Bank has adiritled that he salary 
including allowances was Rs. 500 pei month the same 
would only canecd if the ove ime allowance and leave allow 
ince paid to him were then into consideration . The Bank 
has at a late stage produced the figures of overtime allowance 
21621 leave allowance paid 10 Shri Bhut The statement of 
ligures , inter alia , is as follows. 

Overtimo Allowances 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Sr. Month 

Amount of over time Paid on 
No . 

llo and payablo . 


- 


— 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


Shri G , G . Mehta has relied with a good deal of conviction 
on tho decision of the Supreme Couilt in the State Bank of 
Bikaner and Jaipur 11d Shri Ilari Ilar Nath Bhagava , (re 
ported in 1971, II, LLI, 1 , 3 : 1 ) in support of his contention 
that a person need not have subordinates wojking under hun 
to perforin supervisory duties . In the said ducision a claim 
for what is known us supervisory special allow NCC Wiis made 
and granted particularly because ihe person concerned was 
given certain power of Hitorncy. With respect to the learned 
counsel, this Jecision has no relcunico whatsocver to the ſits 
of the present case I heir l oidships were not heiein called 
upon to decide 15 to what work could be considercu super 
Visory work for the puipod of Section 2 (5 ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act or who could be considered cnployed in a super 
visory capacity for the purpose of the said section . 


-__ _ 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


1 . Sopronhor, 1967 Rs 93. 75 

5 - 10 -67 
2. Ocibor , 1967 

60 .00 

8 - 11-67 
April, 1968 131. 25 

6 - 5 -68 
- - - - - --- - - Leave Alassante - - - - - - - 
Sr. - Peuod Amount of loave Paid on - Payment 
No" - - - Howarices 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
Rs, P . 
1 . 42 Jays 677.45 

19 - 9 -70) Paynioni by 

Payment oider 
No , 16 / 5322. 
Di. 19- 9 - 70 . 


As is clear from the Aw . lid in jespect of banks of Shri 
K . T Denai ( paia 5220 ut page 131) under the scheme ol 
Shastri Award separate scales of pay were provided fui niem 
bers of the subordinate stat. Among the members of the 
clericul siff und of the wiborinio hift theic weic Vwvious 
categories of workmen . Wage differentials had lo le provided 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1753 
- - - - - - - - - - 
by the bank on its staff ; paid salary from the bank , took 

olders from the bank , woke under the supervision and con 
2 . do 22 .55 

8 - 12 - 70 Prymont by 

trol of the bank and evcicised certain duties on behalf of 
(Bal.ince claumcu 

oitor No . 

the bank ; that this was part and parcel of the activities of the 
16 / 7137 bank ; that the bank bad power to constiuct or to get cons 
D1.8 - 12 - 70 . tructed buildings for its own business and also the power to 

get the work supci vised by entiging employees and that the 

upilicant was , thcicforc , ompluyed in an industry . 
From this it appears that Shri Bhutt was paid 1 certain 
1170unt of uveiinne in Sypicnibei, 1967 , and October 1967, I five ul: Sala considerat culier the objection of Slui N . J . 
and a certain amount of overtime in April, 1968. It is also Mcht . However , I would riefer to deal with this matter 
Clous from this shit 113 UVCitise wall paid to Shi Bhatt also ont its in view of the fact that all the evidelice neces 
Coll 1. 7 onwlus till the dule of his lischurgc in 1968. Sy for the purpose of the determination of this quesuon is , 
lim not concerned heicin will, the question whether ovcrtinc in my opinion , on record de not took it Oressally for 
Mely allia in the tel ? Wages foi celluin pulpes. I mc to deal with the Statc Bank of India Aut 19 .55 , or its 
In only concerned with the question whether of citime would Various provisions in detail, Section 32 and 33, inter alia , 
be included in the pression being chiplayed in a supervisory lel with the business which a State Bank may transact. 
Caruciti druwing wagen weeding 500 rupees pel jien en ." Section 34 (6 ) iutel wia is as follows. — . 
It appears to nice en little showking to liggest that Shri 
Bhatt m2 101 w workinan because his wages includu g OVET 

" Save as uthe wise proided in section 33 , the State 
Tuc O sonally ewrudu 500 jupec , pel month . It is 

Bank shall not own or acquire any interest in im 
sowhere suggested that it was a concilion of service that 

novible property cycent for the purpose or provici 
Shui Bhatt should every incurh put in a lived number of 

ing buildings or other accommodation in which to 
ovutic holis tor which he would be paid a certain Sveitimo 

cally on the business of the State Bank or for 
e Vlooth the overtine concerned herein is overtimo 

ploviling evidence foi is oficcis and other emn 
06 - 10nelly That may have to be put in and the figures of 

loyecs : 
Ovestlille Juing two years we produced , only in which show 
that he canned over timc 3 inonths. If the argument advanced 

Providcel that if any sich building or other accommod .1 
by the dink was 4 .cepted and such overtime included for 

tion } not immcalistely required for any of the 
the 10 . 0 ot intcipretation of Section 2 (* ) ( iv ) the status 

purpose of ihe State Bank , the State Bank may 
of a person would vary from month to month according to 

utilize it to the best advanlarge by letting it out or 
the slc -idents of his uveitinc working, he being a workman 

in any other mannvi " 
during one months and not workman for other inonths. 
The Suggestion to include ovcítime for the purpose appeais 

Now , there is not the slightest doubt that the State Bank is 
10 me to be too liivolous to requirc scrious consideration 

constitute for transacting various businesses mentioned in 
und whether overtime in wice for certain pui poses or not 

Section 32 and 33 and that it can own and acquire interest 
undei the Indususiai Dispulen Act or any othei Act, I have 

in innovable property for the purpose of providing accom 
jut de slightest sloubt that they cannot be taken into consi 

rodation in which to carry on the business of the State 
ciciation al cast for the purpose of Section _ ( ) ( iv ) of the 

Etik , The State Bark for the purpose of carrying on its 
Industrial Dispute Act, 1941, where the overtime is not a 

hus.ncs of various places would icquire accommodation . 
regulir invaliable fonduld us in the present case . 

For the purpose it may acquire buildings. build buildings 

extend its buildings of obtain accommodation on hire . 
Kelly Wala ugain plicca on certain payments made to Whilst its main business will be banking all those activi 
hii Bhati conect of leave which he was not allowed to ties in connection with ccommodation equired for the 
CnJoy Under Section 35 of the Shopy & listablishmeuts punose of banking, would undoubtedly be activities inci 

ill at person becomes entitled to a certain number of days dential to its main business of banking activity I am not 
of love with Wages when he works for a certain number of hocin Culled upon to answer the question whether if the 
Jays. Now , what he becoge cititled to is lolle with wages State Bank chose to build a huilling for the puii pose of 
an . Ilvt aditional wages on having put in it curtain number moviding accommodation in which to carry on the business 
of days service. It is iilit that under certain contingencies , of the State Bunk , the same would be uj industry under the 

guin retened to in Section 35 , when a person is not able Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. In the present instance , the 
to avail of this love , he is paid lush compen tion for the State Bank has not chosen to build a building itself , but is 
sme, but it pulssos try wind _ landing how this can be ncluded building the sainc thiough contractors. But the State Bank 
in his Welges rei month . Ordinarily a person cartis wages Wanted accommodation for its business at Ahmedabad For 
for such number of days he 113s worked d og a month or the purpose it chose to expand the existing picnuises at Bhadra 
live with wines for slehuys of hc fionth on which ho and chose to gul the work done of extension of promises 
11 .1 1100 worked for which cao vne to him . Wiiges paid though coniiciors . But even it the work was done through cunt 
in lieu of leave under certain contingcucics nul, ill any ructors , it certain amount of supervision over the contractors 
cient, be included is his W .146 85 michyto fos the purpose was essential on behalf of the Bank and for the purpose it 
of Section 2 ( s)( iv ) Tall therefore , or the view thini Shii utilized the services of an architect on the one hand and a 
Bhatt vid 110 : diaw Wagen excceiling Ry, 5 ( pei mouth . cle : h -of-works on the other , I have not the slightest doubt 
I am also of the opinion that Shui istitt in cmployed to do that since the accommodation was required for the banking 
to -chucal work and 101 Suide, INOIY Wojk . Even assuming that business of the Stute Bank , 111d since even the constuction 
I am wrong in niv conclusions . l Sou Bhatt was eir .ployed of sich building for hinking business required some amount 
1o de supervisory work , or ili other word , employed in a of sure vision over the execution of the work , that would 
supervisory caucily , even then he would ha ob orhol unler he work incidental to the banking f usiness of the bank . A 
Cuction 2 ( ) as he lid not diw Wilges exceeding Rs. 500 per large numbei of lithorities have been cited by both sides 
115C / OI LACUISC luctions mainly of a hugenal 0 .101e . bul it is not necessary for me to buiden this award with all 

those authorities Tlicre can now hardly be any doubt that 
the next question that falls to be considered is what hei he 

persons cmployer in auch incidental activities would be 
Hati Saloployed in an industry , for to be a workmau under persona considered cmployed in the industry and any other 
Section 2 ( ) he must be i pleson mployed in any inclustry . Vicw would lead to fantastic results. 
40 indistiys delincil ini Section 21j) of the industrial Dis 
pulcs Aut, 1947. It is subiritted that the pricnsion of the 

in the dispute betwcen 1 K Cotton Spinning and Weav 
building constuction work of the Bw ws 701 an industry ing Mills Company, Lid , and I abour Appellate Tribunal or 
115 clelincul in Section 211) of the Act . 1h it thi cxtension work Inolixt and others (icported in 1967 IT , IUJ, . 436 ) the 
of the louk chic nolC y hin the banking business un any diction arose whether mulus employed for looking aller 
other business for which the bank was constituie under itin gardens attached to the bungalow 
Se tion ( 1 ) of the State Bank of Inoliet Act 1955 it heing 

could be consi 

dered to be eniployed in the industry In the said case , 10 
101 r business at all Shii N . J. Mehta has submitted that malis wcie appointed by the company for the maintenance 
This lookinn mixed question of law ani fuldt ud this ques of giclens attached to the bungalows of some of the ollices 
110n was not riscul in this picaduge oi cvenul the cviclenco of the mills which weic situated in the compound of the 

ind cannot be allowed to be launcd be the flower sub 11;ills while others were employed for looking for the 
millcai that hop W . tiploved in all incluatiy beliuse the uden atlicheut to himla Niwas which is al Tesidential 
huul Won ( wving an VII cutivilles Whili constituie on Huilding allotted to the governing duccior of the mills and 

JUSTIN UKT Slui Phutt Wells empl.sved jo 11, work of supei which is also situated within the compound of the mills . 
vision of the building of the bank , thall work with oth lll OLIV Some of the malis had to work in the gardens attached to 
part of the lock of the 1717h , that he was directly toployed the residential buildings of the director - in -charge of the 


1754 THE GAZETTE OH INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II -- - 
" - - - - - - - - - -- - 

- -- - - - - - --- - - 
mills, The gardens which were looked after by these malig 

tion which is incidentally connected with the muin 
were not gurdens attached to the mills as guch . It appcars 

industry of the employer would be a workmau pro 
that in the large and expansive colony of the mills , the factory 

vided the other requirements of S . 2 ( s ) are satis 
of the mills was inside a compound. Outside this compound 

fied , 
of the factory , but within the colony of the rrills , were 
situated the bungalows occupied by the officers of the mills 

In this connection , is it hardly necessary to emphasise 
w the director. It was these gardens attached to theso 

that in the modern world industrial operations have 
bungalows that were looked after by the 10 malis . The 

become complex and complicated and for the 
malis wçrç appointed by the company . A small amount 

cfficient and successful functioning of any industry , 
was collected from the officers as a contribution to their 

several incidental Operations are called in aid and 
saluries and the bulk of their salaries were paid by the 

it is the totality of all these operations that ulti 
companies. The contributions by the officers were credited 

mately constitutes the industry as a whole. Where 
to the revenues of the company and from the funds of the 

ever it is shown that the industry hay employed an 
company the malis were paid their wages. The appointment 

employce to assist one or the other operation in 
of thc malis was made by the company. Their work was 

cidental to the main industrial operatiuni , it would 
supervised and controlled by the company and they were 

be unreasonable to deny such an employce the 
Jiable to be dismissed by the company. 

status of a workman on the ground that his work 

is not directly concerned with the main work or 
It was contended in this matter that crucial words used 

operation of the industry . Reverting to the illust 
in the definition prescribed by S . 2 (s ) are " employed in any 

ration of the buscs owned by the factory for tho 
industry; " that the industry consisted of spinning and weay 

purposes of transporting, its workmen , if the bus 
ing Operations and tho malis had obviously nothing to do 

drivers can legitimately be held to assist an opera 
with the spinning or weaving operations and they were not 

tion incidental to the main work of the industry , 
employed in the industry of the company and the fact that 

we do not see why a mali should not claim that he 
tlicy were employed by the company would not make them 

is also engaged in an operation which is incidental 
workmen under the Act. Dealing with this argument, the 

to the main industry . 
Supreme Court observed : 

While we are dealing with this point, it is necessary to 
" Thus presented , the argument is no doubt prima facle 

bear in mind that the bungalows are owned by the 
attractive ; but as soon as we begin to examinc it 

appellant and they are allotted to the officers as 

required by the terms and conditions of the ollicers 
more caicfully , it brcaks down . If the construc 
tion for which Mr. Pathak contends is accepted 

employment. Since the bungalows are allotted to 
without any modification , clerks employed in the 

the offlcers, it is the duty of the appellant to look 
factory would not be workman , because on the 

after the bụngulows and take care of the gardens 
test suggested by Mr. Pathak , they are not emp 

attached to them . If the terms and conditions of 
loyed in the spinning or weaving operation carried 

service require that the officers should be given 
on by the uppellant and yet, thero is no doulit that 

bungalows and gardens arc attached to such bun 
clerks employed by the 

galows, it is diflicult to sce why in the case of 
appellant to do clerical 
work are workman under S . 215 ) , and so , 

malis who are employed by the appellant , arc paid 

the 
literal construction of the clause " employed in any 

by it, and who work subjcct to its control and 
industry " cannot be accepted and 

supervision and discharge the function of looking 

that means that 
" employed in any industry " must take in 

after the appellant s property , it should be said that 

emp 
Joyecs who are employed in connection with opera 

the work done by them has no relation with the 
tions incidental to the main industry , and once we 

industry carried on by the appellant. The emp 
are compelled to introduce this concept of inci 

loyment is by the appellant , the payment is subs 
dental connection with the main 

tantially by the appellant, the continuance of ser 

industry . the 
literal construction for which the appellant con 

vice depends upon the pleasure of the appellant, the 

conditions of service are determined by the 
tends has to be rejected . 

appellant, subject, of course , to the standing ord 

ers prescribed in that behalf, and the work assign 
It is, of course , not very easy to decide what is the field 

ed to the malis is thg work of looking after the 
of employment, included by tbc principle of inci 

propertics which have been allotted to the ofllcers 
dental relationship , and what would be the limita 

of the appellant. Like the transport amenity pro 
tions of the said principle . If sweepers are omp 

vided by a factory to its cmployeus, bungalows 
loyed by thc appellont to clean the premises of the 

and gardens are also a kind of amenity supplied 
mills , that clearly would be work incidental to the 

by the employer to his officers and thic drivers who 
main industry itself , because though the work of 

look after the buses and the malis who look after 
the sweepers have no direct relation either with the 

the gardens must, therefore , be held to be engaged 
spinning or weaving, it is so manifestly necessary 

in operations which are incidentally connected with 
for the efficient functioning of the inclustry itself 

the inain industry carried on by the employer. It 
that it would be irrational to exclude sweepers 

is true that in matters of this kind it is not easy 
from the purview of S . 2 ( 8 ) . If buses are owned 

to draw a linc, and it may also be conccded thut 
by the industry for transporting the workmen , 

in dealing with the question of incidentul relation 
would the driver s of such buses be workmen or 

sliip with the main industrial operation , a limit hias 
not ? It would be noticed that the incidental con 

to be prescribed so is to exclude operations or acti 
nection in the present illustration is one degree re 

vitics whose relation with the main industrial 
moved from the main industry ; the workmen who 

activity may be remote , indirect and far- fetched . 
work in the industry are intended to be brought to the 

We are not prepared to hold that the relation of 
factory by the buses and it is these buses that the 

the work carried on by the malis in the present 
drivers run . Even so , it would not be easy to ex 

case can be charucterized as reinote , indirect ur 
clude drivers of buses engaged by the factory 

far - fetched . That is why we think that the labout 
solely for the purpose of transporting its employees 

Appcllate Tribunal was right in coming to the con 
to the mills from their respective homes and back , 

clusion that malis are workmen under the Aui . 
on the basis that they are not workmen under S . 
2 ( 3 ) . Mr. Pathak was unable to resist the exten 

This decision has been followed by the Supreme Court in 
sion of the Icfinition to such cuses ; but, nevertheless , a number of other decisions as also in a recent decision in 
he attempled to argue that though sweepers who the case of the Ahmedabad Mfg . & Calico Ptr . Co. Ltd . 
sweep the premises of the factory may be called and Ram Tahel kumanand and others ( reported in 1972 ), 
Worhinan , sweeper who sweep the area around the II, LLJ, p . 165 ), I have no doubt that Shri Bhatt was enin 
factory may not be included under S . 2 ( s ) . loyed in one of the incidental duties connected with the 
Sweeping the arca outside the factory , it is argued , industry of banking which was the main activity of the State 
may be incidentally connected with the main in Bank and was employed in the industry . It was admitted 
Justry , but this incidental concction is indirect by Shri G . ( . Melita that the answer to thesc two questions 
and nemote , and so , this class of cmployecs must which I huve dealt with answer all other questions raised 
be excluded from the definition . We are not pre by him in the preliminary point which is on record . The 
pared to accept this irrument. In our opinion , an preliminary points raised by Shri G . O . Mehia aie , thee 
cmployee who is engaged in any work or opera fore , overruled . 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] 

DIJE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 1755 
- - - - - - -- - - - --- - - -- - - - --- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 2 - - - -- - - -- - T - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

I shall now deal with the merits of the demand. The however , was of the view that the Shastri-cum - Desai Award 
dispute that is referred to my adjudication is whether the in terms did not apply to temporary or casual workers likc 
action of the management of the State Bank of India , Shri Bhati . Considerablc correspondence casued about a 
Bhudia , Ahmedabad , was justified in terminating the services yçur after his appointment in regard to some of these topics , 
of Shri A , R . Bhatt, clerk -of-works, with effect from 7th some part of which is produced and is on record . Shri 
December , 1968 , and , if not, to what reliel is he entitled . Bhatt tried to persuade the bank to extend some of these 
However, in order to fully appreciate the circumstances under bencfits to him and the bank categorically stuck to its stand 
which Shri Bhatt s services came to be terminated , it would that he was not entitled to any of those benefits , 
be necessary to narrate a few facts and circuinstances in 
brief that happened during thc course of his employment . 

" The bank by its letter, dated 22nd Tebruary , 1966, [Ex . 
It appears that Shri A . R . Bhatt is a B . E . (Civil ) of the C / 19 ( 32 ) ] informed Shri Bhatt that the bank had decided 
Gujarat University having taken his degree in the year 1961. to raise his consolidated salary from Rs. 475 to Rs. 500 per 
It appears some time in 1963 there appeared in the Times mensem with effect from 1st January, 1966 , provided ho 
of India an advertisement for the State Bank of India for agreed to the terms mentioned in the letter. The letter made 
the post of clerk -of-works. After being interviewed , Shri it clear that he would not be cotitled to any superannuation 
Bhatt was given an appointment letter by the architect, benefits, overtime or bonus; that the salary offered was all 
Shri Hasnjukh C . Patel on 14th May , 1963, [ Fx. C / 3 ( 3 ) ] inclusive; that the appointment was purely temporary ; that 
appointing him as it clerk -of-works for the above referred he would not be entitled to annual increments m galary or 
to project, i. e., is a clerk -of-works for an extension to State benefits or leave according to the bank rules . The letter 
Bank of India , Bhadra , on behalf of the State Bank of further made it clear that the appointment was for the 
India on a consolidated salary of Rs. 375 / - per month . A duration of the present extcnsion of the building subject to 
letter , dated 18th August , 1964, was addressed by Shri the termination by the other side on giving one month s 
A . R . Bhatt to Shri K , H . Desai, State Bank of India , Cep notice . 
tral Office, Bonibay , çnquiring whether since he had applied 
against the advertisernent of the State Bank of India and as 

It appears that even if the Shastri or Desai Award did 
interview was also taken by the Agent along with the Archi 

not apply to Shri Bhatt, in any event, under the Shops and 

Establishmenty Act the Bank was legally bound to give to 
tect and if the architect has given him an appointm¢n ! 
Order on behalf of the State Bank , he was an employee of 

Shri Bhatt leave as per the provisions of the Act. The 
the State Bank or the Architect . It also , inter alia , pointed 

Bank , however , under some misupprehension refused to give 
Qnt that he had to work on Sundays and holidays and had 

any leave to Shri Bhatt. The Shops & Establishments Offi 
also to work often late upto 1 - 30 pm , and at night also 

cer visited thic Bank on 20th ripril , 1966 , to make enquiries 
and that he had put up the overtime amounting to 400 

and check certain records. As the register of hours of work 
hours including Sundays and holidays. He had also asked 

and register for leave with salury in respect of Shri Bhatt 
for certain increments , leave , bonus and a number of other 

for the period from 1st October , 1964, to 19th April, 1960, 
things which are not relevant and sought certain clarifica 

were not available and as Shri Bhatt was not provided with 
tions. It appears that objection was taken to his direct re 

leave with salary book duly filled in , a complaint was lodged 
presentation and Shri H . C . Patel called Shri A . R . Bhatt 

in the Court of City Magistrate , Ahmedabad , against the 
and explained the position to him verbally . A letter was 

Bank . A gummons was also issued by the City Magistrate s 
also addressed to the Agent of the State Bank by Shri H . C . Court, Ahmedababd , requiring the Chiçf Accountant to 
Patel, the architect, regarding Shri Bhatt [Ex, C / 3 (6 ) ). By Appear before the Court. It also appears from the letter 
their letter, dated 19th October, 1964 , ( tex . C /37) ] Shri written by the secretary and treasurer of the Bank to the 
D . S . Herwathe , the agent of the Bank , inter alia, informed head office that at one stage the magistrato indicated his un 
Shri Bhatt as follows : 

willingness to permit the withdrawal of the case as he had 

received information to the ettect that the bank was going 
" We bave been advised by our Bombny Head Office to victimise Shri A . R . Bhatt in view of the complaint lodged 

that they have now decided to appoint you on tho by him . However , the complaint was ultimately permitted 
Bank s staff with cffcct from the 1st October , 1964 to be withdrawn and Shri Bhat was given leave as per the 
ou an all inclusive salary of Rş. 475 per month (not Shops & Establishments Act. It also appears that though at 
entitled to any superannuation benefits, uvertime one time no bonus was paid to Shri Bhatt, subsequently the 
or bonus ) . It should be definitely understood that the Bank realised that it was bound to pay bonus under the 
appointment is purely temporary and will be conti Payment of Bonus Act , 1965, to Shri Bhatt and the same 
nued for the duration of the present extension of was also paid . 
the building. It will also be subject to termination 

The offer of increase of salary from Rs. 475 to Rs. 500 . 
on one month s notice from either side. . . . . . . . 

However , was subsequently withdrawn by the Bank by their 
By his letter, dated 18th December , 1964, (EX, C -12 ) address 

letter , dated 22nd June , 1966 . Shri bbatt had become a 
ed to Shri H . C . Patel, Shri Bhatt accepted the proposals and 

member of the Bank s union and Shri Bhatt s case was taken 
the said acceptance was communicuted by Shri H . C . Patel, 

up by the union who also wote to the bank in connection 
the architect, by his letter , cated 18th December , 1964 , (Ex. 

with Shri Bhatt. Conciliation proceedings started but during 
C - 13 ). Jt, however, appears that though Shri Bhutt had 

the conciliation proceedings the bank did not budge from 
accepted the offer of the company and accepted the appoint its position and turned down several offers of settlement 
ment , he was in fact not satisfied with the terms and condi 

made . The Conciliator submitted his failure report to the 
Ons of the appointment. I shall only indicatc A few of 

Government. It may also be mentioned that in the mean 
them . The working hours of all bank employees, other than 

while in the year 1967 the Bank wanted a clerk - of-works 
si bordinate staff , were 36 . Shri Bhatt was required to for its Baroda branch . The post was advertised for which 
work 48 hours in a week . The bank employees were given 

Shri Bhatt applied . Although a number of persons were 
leave as per what is known as Shastri Award in respect of bank called for interview , Shii Bhatt was not one of them . As 
employees as subsequently revised by the Desai Award in the persons who were interviewed were not found satisfac 
respect of bank employees. Shri Bhatt, however , was to tory , the Bank subsequently appointed one Krishna Murthy 
start with not given any leave whatsoever, neither under the as clerk - of -works on a salary of Rs. 800 . Before the failure 
Shastri Award nor under Desai Award , nor even as per the report was submitted by the conciliator on 18th March , 
Shops & Establishments Act. The bank employees were paid 1968 , the offer to refer the disputo to arbitration was accept 
overtime as per Shastri-cum -Desai Award after 36 hours of ed by the union on behalf of Shri Bhatt but turned down 
working. Shii Bhatt was not paid any overtime either under by the bank . By their letter , dated 24th August, 1968 , the 
Shastri Award or under Desai Award or even as per the Government of India informed the union that they did not 
Shops & Establishments Act. The bank employees were consider the dispute fit for reference to an industrial tribunal 
paid certain amount of bonus. Shri Bhatt was not paid for adjudication as in their opinion , the action of the 
any bonus whatsoever . The bank employees were given management did not appear to be unjustified . A writ peti 
certain medical benefits , but Shri Bhatt was not given day tion against the Union of India for issuing a writ of man 
beuefit . There were a certain number of agreements regard damus or any other appropriate writ under Article 226 of the 
ing permanency of temporary employees. By and large this Constitution of India was filed before the High Court of 
provided for a temporary worker being made permanent Gujarat by Shri Bhatt in November , 1968 . By their letter , 
after about 9 months. Shri Bhatt was treated as temporary , dated 7th December, 1968 , [Ex. C / 3 ( 16 ) ] the Bank inform 
baving been appointed on a temporary job . Shri Bhatt was ed Shri Bhatt, inter alia , 1.9 follows: 
not considered entitled to any annual increment. The letter 
of the bank , inter alia , stated that he was being appointed 

" We refer to our letter No. CA / ASM / 6 .477, dated the 
on bank s staff . Shri Bhatt deduced from this that he 

22nd February , 1966 , in terms of which you 
would be entitled to all the benefits that would bo given to 

were appointed as a temporary clerk - of-works. As 
all other bank staff as per the Shastri Award . The bank , 

you were engaged on a purely temporary basis and 


1756 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[PART JI - - 
--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - 

- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 
as your services iue no longer jequired , you ETC 

missal for inisconduct, it will be open to it to set 
hereby informed that your services are terminated 

it aside as a colourablo exercise of the power " . 
with imunsdiate cffect 
It is this ordor ol termination which is the subject matter 

In U . B . Dutt & Co . (Private ) Ltd . and its workpian (re . 
of dispute in this procesding . 

ported in 1962, I, LLJ, p . 374 ). the claim that was pul 

torward on behalf of the company was that it was entitled! 
The truc legal position about the jurisdiction of Industrial under rule 18 ( a ) of the standing orders which was a term 
Tribunal in dealing with cases of this kind is no longer in of contract between tho appellant and its cinployecs to dis 
loubt. The powers of the lindustrial tribunal first came pense with the services of any employee at any time by 
Lo be considered by the Libour Appellate TV just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages . Deal 
bunal in the dispute between the Buckingham & ing with this contention , their Lordships observed . - 
Carnatic Mills Lid ., and Theis Workers ( reportel in 
1951, II, LII, p . 314 ). 

" We are of opinion that this claim 
In para 8 . their lordships ob 

of the appellant 

cannot be accepted , and it is too late in the day 
served : 

for an employer to raise such a claim for it 
" In the case before us, the standing order provides for 

amounts to a claim " to hirc and fire an employee 

as the employer pleases and thus completely nega 
three types of cases in which the services of an 

tives security of service which has been secured 
employee can be terminated , namely , ( 1) automatic 

to industrinl employees through industrial adjudi. 
termination for absence without leave for a stated 

cation for over a long period of time now . As far 
period , or for overstaying leave without satisfactory 

back as 1952 , the Labour Appellate Tribunal had 
explanation ; ( 2 ) discharge on nytice or in licu there 

occasion to consider this matter relating to dis 
of payment of wages for a certain period without 

charge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of 
assigning any reason and (3 ) dismissal for mis 

wages for a certain period without assigning any 
conduct. In cases where the ground alleged by the 
cmployer is misconduct, rules of procedure to be 

reason : ( See Buckingham and Carnatic Co ., Ltd ., 
followed before the order of dismissal is passed 

etc . v . Workers of the company, etc . ( 1951- 11 L .LJ. 

314 ). It was of opinon that even in a case of this 
are also laid down in the standing orders. In our 

kind , the requirement of bona fides 
opinion these three types have to be considered 

is esscnlial 

and if the termination of service is a colourable 
separately . In all these types, the requirement of 

exercise of the power or as a result of victimiza 
bonafides is essential. The termination of service 
in colourable exercise of the power or as a result 

tion or unfair labour practice , the industrial tri 

bunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and 
of victimisation or unfair labour practice or of 
caprice, should be prevented, as otherwise somo 

set aside such termination . Further it held that 

where the termination of service 
of the fundamental rights and principles which we 

is capricious, 

arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of 
have noticed above would be violated . Arbitrary 

the employer judged by normal standards 
conduct or unnecessary harshness on tho part of 

of a 

reasonable man , that may be cogent evidence of 
the employer , judged by the normal standard of a 

victunization or linfair labour practice . These 
reasonable man , may be cogeut evidence of victi 

Observations of the Labour Appellato Tribunal were 
misation or unfair labour practice " . 

approved by this Court in Chartered Bank , Bombay 
" In the first type of cases our vicw is that an indus 

v . Chartered Bank Employees Union ( 1960 - 11 L . L . J . 
trial tribunal would be at liberty to examine the 

222 ) and Assam Oil Company V . Its worknien 
explanation offered by the cmployee for his absence 

(1960 - 1 LLJ. 587). Thereforo if, as in this case , 
and other circumstances also for the purposes of 

the employer wanted to take action for miscon 
seeing whether the employer acted with an honest 

duct and then suddenly dropped the departmental 
purpose . In the second type of cases, even when 

proceedings which were intended to be held and 
the standing order authorises discharge on notise 

decided to discharge the cmployee under rule 18(1 ) 
without assignment of reason the scope of enquiry 

of the standing orders , it was clearly a colourable 
would be similar . , , , . . 

excrcise of the power under that rule inasmuch 
In Chartered Bank , Bombay, and Chartered Bank Employers 

as that rule was used to get rid of an employee 
Union and another ( reported in 1960, II , LLI, p . 222 at p . 

instead of following the course of holding an in 
226 ) thcir Lordships of the Supreme Court observed as 

quiry for misconduct, notice for which had been 
follows:- - 

given to the employee and for which a departmenta ! 

inquiry was intended to be held . . . . . . . . 
" In Buckingham and Carnatic Company, Ltd ., etc. v . 
workers of the company, etc . ( 1951- II L . L . J. 314 ), 

“ Learned counsel for the appellant, however, urges inat 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to 

the employer was empowered to take action under 
consider this matter relating to discharge by notice 

tule 18 ( a ) of the standing orders and having taken 
or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a 

action under that rule , there was nothing for it to 
certain period without assigning any reason . It 

justify before the tribunal We have already said 
was of opinion that even in A case of this kind the 

that this position cannot be accepted in industrial 
requirement of bona fides is essential and if the 

Adjudication relating to terminution of service of 
termination of service is a colourable excrcise of 

an employce and has not been accepted by indus 
thc power or as a result of victimization of un . 

trial tribunals over a long course of years now 
fair labour practice the industrial tribunal would 

and the view taken by industrial tribunals has hec 
have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such 

upheld by this Court in tho two cases referred to 
termination . Further it held that where the termi 

above . Learned coursel for the appellant, how 
nation of service is capricious , arbitrary or unncccs 

cver , relies on the decision of this Court in 
sarily harsh on the part of the cmployer judged 

Parshotam Lal Dhingra v . Union of India ( 1958 -1 
by normal standards of a reasonable man , that may 

L .LJ. 544 ) . "That was, however, il case of a public 
be cogent evidence of victimization or unfair labour 

servant and the considerations that apply to such 
practice . We are of opinion that this correctly lay: 

A case are in our opinion entirely different, Stress 
down the scono of the power of the tribunal to 

was laid by the learned counsel on the observations 
interfere where service is terminated simpliciter 

at n 561 where it was observed is follows . 
under the provisions of a contract or of standing 

is truc that the misconduct, negligence , incfficiency 
orders or of some award like the Bank Award . In 

or other disqualification may be the motivc or 
order to judge this, the tribunal will have to yo 

ducing factor which influences the Government to 
into all the circumstances which led to the totai 

take action under the terms of the contract of 
nation simpliciter and an employer cannot say that 

employment or the specific service rule , nicverthe . 
it is not bound to disclose the circumstances before 

less , if a right exists, under the contract or iho 
the tribunal. The form of the order of termination 

rules , to terminate the service , the motive orcrut 
is not conclusive of the true nature of the order, 

ing on the mind of the Government is, ils Chugl 
for it is possible that the form may be merely a 

C . J ., has said in Srinivas Ganesh V Union of 
comouflage for an order of disnuissal for miscon 

India ( 1957 - IT L .LJ. 189 ) ( Suprit ), wholly frrelc 
duct It is theicfore , always open to the tribunal 

vant" . 
to go behind the form incl look at the substance ; 
and if it comes to the conclusion , for example , 

“ It is urged that the same principle should be applied 

to industrial adjudication . It is enough to say that 
that though in form the order amounts to 
termination simpliciter it in rcality clonks a dis 

the position of Government servants stands on ari 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1757 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - -- -- - - - - - - 
entirely different footing as compared to industrial A very large number of decisions have been cited by both 
cmployees. Article 310 and 311 of the Constitu sides as to the jurisdiction of this Tribunal. However , 19 
tion apply to Government servants and it ly in tho rny opinion , the few decisions referred to earlier clearly 
light of these articles read with the rules framed lay down tho law on this subject and it is not necessary 
under Art. 308 that questions relating to termina for me to deal with all those decisions. It is in the light 
tion of service of Government servants have to be of the principles laid down in this decision that I shall 
considered . No such constitutional provisions have consider whether tho order of discharge passed on 7th 
to be considered when onc is dealing with industrial December , 1968 , was justified . The order of discharge , 
employees. Further an employer cannot now press inter alia , states as follows : 
his right purely on contract and say that under 
the contract ho has unfattered right " to hire and 

" . . . . . . . . . . As you were engaged on a puroly tempo . 
fire " his employees . That right is now subject to 

rary basis and as your services are no longor re 
industrial adjudication and even a power like that 

quired you are hereby informed that your services 
granted by rulo 18 ( a ) of the standing orders in 

are terminated with immediato effect . . . . . . . . " 
this caso , is subject to the scrutiny of industrial 

The order purports to suggest that he is discharged because 
courts in the manner indicated above . Tho ap 

he is temporary and his services are no longer required. It 
pellant, therefore , cannot rest its case merely on 

has been şubmitted that the services of the opponcat have 
rulo 18 ( a ) And say that having acted under that 

Licen terminated in accordance with the terms of the contact 
rule , there is nothing more to be said and that the 

which give the right to the bank to terminate his services 
industrial court cannot inquire into the chugce that 

on giving 30 days notice . The Bank has further submitted 
led to tho termination of service under rule 18 ( a ). that his appointment was for the first phasc of construction 
The industrial court in our opinion has the right 

which was by then completed ; that he way, therefore , no 
to inquire into the causes that might have led to 

longer required and his services wero , therefore , terminated . 
termination of service even under a rule like 18 (a ) Although a good deal of effort has been made in the bezin 
and if it is satisfied that the action taken under 

ing to show that he was appointed for the first phase; that 
such a rulo was 4 colourable exercise of power that phase was over and , therefore , his sorvices wore termi 
and was not bona fide or was a result of victimiza nated , in the evidence given by the Law Officer, the ground 
tion or unfair labour practice , it would have jurisdic mentioned has been as follows... 
tion to intervene and set asido such termination 

. . Certain demands were made by Mr. Bhatt. 
The Bank was not agreeable to concede those de . 

mands. The Chairman therefore put it to me that 
This decision in terms lays down that thoro is considerable 
Jifference in the case of a public servant and others and 

since there was no meeting point between our Adn . 

Deptt. and Mr. Bhatt, could we not obligo him by 
the considerations that apply in the caso of public servants 

terninating his services. There was no question 
( 10 entirely diflerent and whilst the motive or inducing 

of mala fides. I told the Chairman that so long 
factor which operated on the mind of tho Government may 
ho irrelevant in tho cage of the Government servants , that 

as there was no question of mala fides, there 
would not be so in the case of industrial adjudication . The 

could be no objection to termination of his sor 

vices . . . . . . . , 
same law again is restated in the Tata Oil Mills Co . Ltd , 
versus their workmen (reported in 1966 , II, LL , at page There thus appear to me two sets of reasons suggested for 
602 ) , which is as follows. 

termination of his sorvices; ( 1 ) that he was appointed for 

the first phuse of construction work which was over aud 
" The truc legal position about the industrial court s therefore his services were no longer required and (2 ) that 

jurisdiction and authority in dealing with cases of his services were terminated because thero was no meeting 
1his kind is no longer in doubt. It is true that in point between his demands and the bank. Although these 
several cases contracts of employment or provisions two points have been suggested in the written statement 
in standing orders authorize an industrial employer 

and have been argued at gomo length , the first point has 
to terminate the services of his employees aftor fractically been given up . However, I shall deal with it 
giving notice for one month or paying salary for 

very břicfly . 
one month in lieu of notice , and normally , an 
employer may , in a proper case , bo ontitled to 

It has been suggested that Shri Bhatt was appointed for 
exercise tho said power. But, where an order of 

the first phase of construction work . In support of this 
discharge passed by an employer gives rise to an 

contention it has been submitted that at the time of his 
industrial dispute , the form of the order by which 

appointment in October , 1964 , no final decision was taken 
the employee s services are terminated , would not 

regarding construction beyond the first phase and , therefore , 
be decisive ; industrial adjudication would be en 

his appointment must be deemed to be only regarding the 
titled to examine the substance of the matter and 

first phaso . I am not inclined to agree with this suggestion 
decide whether the termination is in fact discharge 

at all. The letter of appointment, dated 19th October, 
simpliciter or it amounts to dismissal which has 

1964, inter alia , states as follows : 
put on the cloak of a discharge simpliciter. If 
the industrial court is satisfied that the order of " . . . . . . . . It should be definitely understood that the 
dischargo is punitive, that it is mala fide, or that 

appointment is purely temporary and will be conti 
it amounts to victimization or unfair labour practice , 

nued for the duration of the proAcnt extension of 
it is competent to the industrial court to set aside 

the building . . . . " . 
the order and, in a proper case direct the reinstate 
ment of the employees" . 

His appointment is, theroforo , for tho prosont extension of 

building and not for any particular phase thereof. There is 
The law laid down in the case of the Workmen of Sudder no doubt that at the time this appointment was made, the 
Offlce , Cinnamara , and Tho Management of Sudder Office picture of the wholo axtension of the building was before 
and another , ( reported in 1971, IT, LLJ, P , 620 ) relied upon Them . In a letter , dated 4th June, 1964, addressed to the 
by Shri G . O . Mehta , does not, in my opinion , in any wav Municipal Commissioner by the Agent at Ahmedabad , they 
modify the carlier rulings but reiterates the principles lald have, inter alia , stated as follows. 
down therein . As pointed out by their Lordships in their 
decision in para ( 25 ).- - 

“ We have to advise that the State Bank of India con 

template opening a new Local Head Offilco at Ahme 
" We will now proceed to consider whether the order 

dabad to meet the growing need of the industry and 
of termination in the case before us is ono of sim 

public in tho Gujarat area . To house the Local 
pliciter under the provisions of the standing orders 

Head Office having various departments, we need a 
or whether it is really an order of dismissal for 

bigger building and we send herewith plans of a 
misconduct. We will be emphasising in duo 

multi-storeyed buildings submitted by tho Bank s 
course that even the Labour Court which held in 

Architect, Shri Hasmukh C . Patel." 
favour of tho workman has not recorded any 
finding that the action of the management in The plan is attached thereto and the plan is for all the 
terminating the services of the workman was mala nhanen. It is clear from this letter that what was contemp 
file or amounted to unfair labour practice or was lated at the time was a multi -storeyed building a9 per the plan 
a case of victimisation " , 

attached which included all the phascs and not only the 
11 G of 1 /73 – 9 


1758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[PART JI 


V - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


— 


first phase as is sought to be made out. At the date it 
Lippears from tho evidence on record that estimates of the 
requirements of various materials were also taken from the 
architect and were before them . It is true that the financial 
sanction in terms of money for extention was taken much 
after his appointment , but there undoubtedly is a difference 
between taking a decision for extension and obtaining sanc 
tion of money for various phases. I have no doubt that if 
tho idea was to appoint Shri Bhatt only for the first phase 
the language used in the letter of appointment in view of 
the preparation made at that time for building a miti 
storcyed building would have been different. It is not 
denied that the first phase of the construction to the ex 
tent it was possible in view of the enlargement of the 
scheme was over considerable time before the discharge of 
Shri Bhatt. At the timc Shri Bhatt was slischarged , it 11 
pcars from the evidence that not only a good part of the 
second but even some part of the third phase was in pro 
giess . If Shri Bhatt s appointment was only for the first 
phase , further orders for his continuance would have been 
sought from the head office . In none of the correspondence 
produced has there been a sliggestion that the phase for 
which Shri Bhatt was appointed has been completed . In 
this connection the letter , dated 26th November , 1968 , (Ex . 
C / 20 (8 )), marked private and confidential, written to Shui 
Varma by Shri E , M . Cohen , is also relevant. In the said 
letter produced at the instance of the union , it has hcon 
inter alia stated as follow $ . 


" According to the advice given by the Solicitors, the 

Bank could follow this course . If we do so , huw 
ever, it is not unlikely that Shri Bhatt would dis 
pute the termination especially as he has now the 
backing of the Union and work for which he was 

engaged is still in progresg " . 
This letter written by Shri E . M . Cohen who was in charge 
of the Ahmedabad branch gives the lie to the submission 
sought to be made out in thc written statement of the 
company. It has practically been given a go -by by the Law 
Officor who was examined because he has categorically 
stated in his evidence that the dominant reason for ternii 
nating his services was that there was no meeting roint 
between his demands and the bank s service conditions; that 
he was not aware when the first phase of construction was 
completed and that at the time the decision was taken , 
the question whether the work for which he was employed 
was completed or not was not considered . He has further 
stated that he was not aware of the position regarding the 
work of construction of building at Ahmedabad . It also 
appears from the cvidence of Shri Bhatt that part of the 
first phase has still not been completed and possibly will 
not be completed without completing the other pnakes 
This aspect, therefore, does not require any further consi 
deration . However , I have referred to it only because it 
throws some light on the approach of the bank and the 
extont to which it is prepared to go to make out a case 
of discharge of this one individual, 


. . . . . It is true that a large number of demands 
regarding scrvice conditions have been mado by 
workmen , to which it is not possible for us to 
agice . We do not terminate their services because 
we do not agree to their demands, because we have 
to run the Bank . These are however collective 
demands. When a demnand relates to a particular 
individual and where the terms of contractare 

not agrecable we do not retain him in service . . . . " 
The whole tenor of the cvidence of the Law Officer who is 
the only witness examined by the Bank is that Shri Bhatt s 
services were terminated because there was no meeting point 
between the demands of Shri Bhatt and the bank s desire to 
mect them ; that at the time the decision was taken the 
question whether the work for which he way employed 
or not was not considered ; that his services were not ternii 
nated because of any dissatisfaction with his work , He 
admits that they do not terminate the services of the work . 
men . He admits that there are large number of den ands 
regarding service conditions of workmen to which they do 
not agree and still they do not terminate their serviccs. 
The difference in this case has been , according to the Law 
Officer, because the demand related to a particular individual 
and he did not agree and while others were collective de 
ninnds. The Law Officer even does not know who has been 
subsequently engaged after Shri Bhatt s discharge and who 
is working today. The order of discharge in terms states 
that his services are terminated because his services are no 
longer required . It does not appear that the work on which 
he was employed was completed and his services were no 
longer required on that account. His services were terpil 
nated because the bank did not want to concede the demand 
of Shri Bhatt. It appears to me that per se on evidence 
of Law Officer the order of discharge passed on Shii Bhatt 
was mala fide and deserves to be queshed and docs not 
rcquire any further consideration whatsoever. It is truc 
that under the terms of appointment of Shri Bhatt he was 
appointed as temporary and a certain salary was fixed . It 
is also true that notwithstanding this letter of Appointment 
Shri A . R . Bhatt wanted revision of his salary and other 
terms and conditions of his employment and also wanted to 
be made permanent. All the persons employed by the bank 
who were workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 
were governed by the terms and conditions laid down by 
the Desai Award . Shri Bhatt who was appointed by the 
hunk on what the bank calls the bank staff , was deprived 
of those terns and conditions of service available to almost 
all the enployees of the bank at Ahmedabad who were 
workmen with the possible cxception of Shri Bhatt. The 
working hours of all of them wero thirty six , whereas those 
of Shri Bhatt were 48 . There was also other type of dis 
crimination in his service conditions on some score. Shri 
Bhatt desired to be treated on par with other workers . Wag 
there anything unusual or unnatural in what he desired . 
In fact, the bank at one time went to the length of denying 
him leave even under the Shops & Establishments Act . The 
bank even tried to deprive him of bonus, a statutory obliga 
tion cast on the bank . Shri Bhatt claimed to be a work 
man under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . His demunds 
were undoubtedly demands similar to those made every day 
by the workman He was a member of the union and 
union rightly took up his cause and the demand constituted 
when refused what would be called an industrial dispute , 
Whether it relates to a single workman or large number of 
workmen , once the body of workmen take up a dispute , it 
becomes an industrial dispute . The law of the land has 
proscribed a machinery for the investigation and settlement 
of industrial disputes. It was open to the bank to have re 
course to this machinery set up by law for the settlement 
of industrial disputes. Shri Bhatt offered to go to arbitra 
tion for the purpose of resolving this dispute but instead 
of agreeing to arbitration or for joint reference under Sec 
tion 10 (2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the bank 
took up a negative attitude throughout and discharged the 
worker for making demands which he had every right to 
make and to persue them in a legal and legitimate manner . 
The action of the bank , therefore , in discharging bim 
because there was no meeting point, in my opinion , is per 
se nak fide and also amounts to unfair labour practice 
and victimisation . However, I shall also deal with the other 
material on record to show that the action of the bank was 
in this case mula fide. 

It appears that the State Bank of India which under the 
Awards of Shri Shastri and Shri Desal was made to pay com 
paratively generous wages and salaries to all its employees 


I shall now deal with the other ground suggested for the 
discharge that Shri Bhatt was discharged because there was 
no meeting point between the demand and the service con 
ditions of the bank . This appears to be undoubtedly the 
true reason of the discharge . The Law Officer has elaborated 
this in his evidence as follows. 
" I was consulted by the Bank whether in view of all 

the circumstances , his service is to be terminated 
I do not remember the exact point of timc when 
I was SO consulted. But I positively remember 
that the then chairman Shri Dahijia did consult 
me. I was also tonsulted regarding some claims 
made by Mr. Bhatt regarding leavc salary , over 
time, etc. Certain demands were made by Mr 
Bhatt. The Bank was not agreeable to concede 
those demands. The Chairman therefore put it to 
me that since there was no meeting point between 
our Adm . Deptt. and Mr. Bhatt, could we nor 
oblige him by terminating his services . There was 
no question of mala fides, I told the Chairman 
that so long as there was no question of mula 
fides, there could be no ohjection to termination 

of his services . , . , . , . 
He has categorically stated that his services were not terint 
nated because of any dissatisfaction with his work . He has 
admitted further as follows.-- - 


1759 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1995 


covered by the award , had no fixed policy regarding the 
payment of wages to the clerk - of-works. It tried to secure 
their services as and when required on such rales as it was 
possible and paid varying rates at different times and at 
different places and gave them different services conditions. 
That this is so is very apparent from the information the 
Bank had been compelled to give during the course of 
hearing which is Ex. C / 19( 20 ). According to the sapie . 
persons appointed as clerk - of-works in various places by 
the Bank at various times were paid as follows: 


ces of the latter. A copy of the Architect s letter 
dated the 8th February recently received by us in 
this respect is cnclosed in which they suggest the 
continuance of Shri Bhatt s services owing to the 
difficulty of getting a suitable candidate for the post 
within the salary range prescribed by us," 


Circle 


Naino 


Sr. 
No. 


Date 


Salary on 
Appointment 
(All inclusivo 
por month 


Rupecs. 


1. Delhi Shri Diwanchand 450 / 30 -5 - 1964 
2 . Dolhi Shri F . D . Kevalramuni 600 / 25 -6 - 1965 
3 . Delhi Shri R . C . Jain 650 / 25-8 -196 
4 . Delhi Shri J. S . Khera 650 / 23 -2- 1967 
5. Bombay Shri R . G . Sulo 450 / 31 -8 - 1965 
6 . Contral Shri M . H . Jain 1,400 / 1 - 12 - 196 

Office 
7. Central Shri A . R . Bhande 450 / 
Offico 

with increnrent 1 -9 -1970 

of Rs. 50 /- p. a . 
8 . Ahmedabad 

Shri N . Krishnamurthy 800 /- 28 - 10 - 1967 
- - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
Shri Bhatt, according to this exhibit was started on one of 
the lowest salaries paid by the bank and the bank even refus 
ed to give him bonus and Icave which it was bound to give even 
under the statutes and gave the same benefits to him at Icast 
in respect of leave after a criminal complaint was lodged . As 
early as on 25th May , 1966 , Shri R . N . Chattur wrote to 
Shri S . G . Shcth , the State Bank of Ahmedabad , inrer alla , as 
follows. -- - 


Fron para (5 ) (i) therein , it is again clear that the work 
for which he was engaged was still in progress and that if a 
substituto In his place was appointed the same was likely to 
be misunderstood particularly as Shri Bhatt has not been 
found lacking in the discharge of his duties during the terms 
of his service with them . This letter inter alia , makes a sug 
gestion that Shri Bhatt s services be transferred to the Archi 
tect and he may be given a certain rise in order to satisfy him 
and as his case now sponsored by the union was pending be 
fore the Asstt. Commissioner of Labour . 

By his letter , dated 15th October, 1966 , [Ex. C /19 ( 31 ) ], 
written by Shri S . G . Sheth , Secretary & Treasurer , State 
Bank Ahmedabad , to the Managing Director , it is suggested 
that if they termniate the services of Shri Bhatt before the 
casc referred in that letter was decided , it may unnecessarily 
prejudice the interest of the bank when the case came up for 
hearing . It also further suggests that the bank s architect was 
on the look out for a suitable substitute in place of Shri 
Bhatt but they were finding it difficult to secure the services 
of a competent person for the job within the salary range in 
dicated . It also , inter alla , stated that the magistrate before 
whom the complaint under the Shops & Establishments Act 
was filed had indicated his unwillingness to permit the with 
drawal of the case as he had the information to the cffect 
that the bank was going to victimise Shri A . R . Bhatt in 
view of the complaint lodged by him . 

These letters clearly suggest that the bank was contemplat 
ing the termination of Shri Bhatt s services although there was 
nothing against his work and his work was satisfactory , but 
because they wanted to get a cheaper man or did not want 
to pay Shri Bhatt salary as per his demand . There was a fresh 
opening of the post of a clerk -of -works at Baroda in or 
about and Shri Bhatt applied for the post. He was working 
as a clerk -of-works at Ahmedabad at the time for 3 to 4 
years and his work was considered satisfactory . Even then 
he was not called for interview . As those called for inter 
view were not found to be satisfactory , the post was read 
vertised , but Shri Bhatt was not offered that post. One Shri 
Krishna Murthy was appointed on that post on a salary of 
Rs, 800 . Although Shri Bhatt enquired in the course of hear 
ing to produce the list of persons who werc recommended for 
being called for interview , no information was given and Shri 
Bhatt s suggestion was that he was not called for interview 
although his name was included amongst thosc who were 
to be called , out of prejudice against him . The cxplanation 
given again that the work was different at Baroda and , there 
fore, a higher salary was paid Also hardly appears convincing . 
The motive behind the termination of service , is amply made 
clear by the letter of Shri S . D . Verma addressed to Shri 
E . M . Cohen , dated 26th October, 1968 [ Ex. C /2019 )]. It , 
inter alia , states as follows: - - 
" We have given full consideration to Shri Bhatt s case 

and it occurs to us that his further retention in the 
Bank s service is not desirable . You are aware that 
the main reason for which we last deferred tormi 
nation of his services was the pendency of concilia 
tion proceedings before the Assistant Tabour Com 
misioner ( C ) , Ahmedabad . Apropos the failure of 
the conciliation proceedings and in the light of the 
opinion cxpressed by the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour , Employment & Rehabilitation , 
in their letter dated the 24th August, 1968 to you , 
to the effect that they do not consider the dispute fit 
for reference to an industrial Tribunal for adjudica 
tion , we need no longer he restrained in taking fur 
ther appiopriate action ." 


" Wo observe from our records that the salary of Rs. 475 

per mensem paid to Shri A . R . Bhatt, Clerk -of -Works 
is on the high side as compared with thosc payable 
to the clerk - of-works in Bombay Circlo . We, there 
fore , consider that it should be possible for you to 
secure the services of another person on & salary 
ranging from Rs. 400 to 450 per mensem . Plcase 
therefore , arrange to terminate Shri Bhatt s services 
by giving him one month s jotice and submit your 
recommendations for the appointment of another 
Clerk - of -works in his place ." (Ex, C / 20 ( 5 ) ]. 


On 21st June , 1966, Shri S . G , Sheth informcd Shri Chet 
tur [Ex. C / 20 ( 2 ) ] that they were arranging in consultation 
with the bank s architect to appoint another clerk -of-works 
within the salary rango indicated and to terminate the services 
of Shri Bhatt by giving him one month s notice as soon as 
they were able to get a suitable substitute in his place . The 
said letter , however , points out why it was not desirable to 
terminate Shri Bhatt s services at that stage. The reasons wero 
that the construction was progressing with considerabl speed 
and they were anxious to havo the second phase of the con 
truction completed as expeditiously as possible to shift from 
the present rented premises ; that Shri Bhatt was on the job 
since the construction was undertaken and the work would 
suffer and it would be difficult to adhere to the tinc schedule 
if he was to be changed at that stage and further that it 
would be difficult to secure the services of another competent 
clerk -of-works at short notice . 


In his letter, dated 29th March , 1967, [ Ex, C / 20 ( 3 ) ] Shri 
M . A . Narayanan , the Deputy Secretary & Treasurer , at 
Ahmedabad states , inter alia , as follows : 


" , . . . With regard to paragraph 3 of you letter under 

Teply , wo regret to advise that the Architects have 
not so far been in a position to find a sultable Clerk 
of works to ieplacc Shri Bhatt ind consequently , it 
has not been possible for us to terminate the servi 


The reply to the said Ictter written by Shri E .M . Cohen of 
Ahmedabad to Shri Verma, dated 26th November , 1968, 
[Ex . C / 20 ( 8 ) ] makes it abundantly clear that the work for 
which he was engaged was still in progress ; that if his services 
werc terminated it would be necessary for them to engage a 
substitute in his place and further that Shri Bhatt has not 
been found in any way lacking in the discharge of his duties 
during the term of his service . It suggests that the only 
ground on which they could justify the action would he; ( 1 ) 
Shri Bhatt s attempts to bring pressure on the Bank to con 
cede to his demand for certain benofits to which he clainy he 


1760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[PART JI - - 


is entitled by resorting to irregular and irresponsible actions 
amount to indisciplino ; ( 2 ) Shri Bhatt s action in submitting 
roprosentations timo and again to higher authorities direct 
despito our advising him not to do so is highly objectionable , 
and amounts to gross misconduct. The letter, inter alia , states 
as follows: 


the phases , but even all the phases aro now likely to be over 
according to the evidence some time in 1974 . In the circun 
stancos, I do not think this is a fit case where I should direct 
reinstatement, though in paying compensation I cannot ignore 
the fact that Shri Bhatt was discharged from service in Dec 
ember , 1968, and the work continued till some time in 1974 , 
5 to 6 years thereafter . 


"No doubt, by resorting to such actions, Shri Bhatt has 

proved that he is not a desirable person to retain in 
the Bank s servico , but it is a matter for considera 
tion , whether this in itself would be sufficient 10 
cstablish the bonafides of our action if the matter 
goos before a court of law as we apprehend it 
would . On the other hand , we have also to bear in 
mind the fact that if Shri Bhatt is continued in the 
Bank s service , he would be a constant source of 
nuisance as it is difficult to mako him mend his 


The next question is the question of compensation . 
Shri Bhatt has claimed reinstatement plus compensation which 
works out to Rs. 49 , 374 (Ex. U -6 ) . This includes a number of 
itemso like ( 1 ) overtime on the basis of 36 hours per week 
instead of 48 hours ; ( 2 ) difference in tho galary of Rs. 800 
per month from 1st January , 1967 , 10 December , 1968 ; 
( 3 ) the difference on account of a regular increment for the 
year 1967 and 1968 to which , according to him , he was entitled 
as por tho Desal Award ; ( 4 ) difference in bonus paid to him 
and payable to him on the basis that he was on the regular 
staff of tho bank ; ( 5 ) medical benefits per year from October , 
1964, till today; (6 ) the difference in Icave granted to him 
under the Shops & Establishments Act on the basis that he 
was on the staff of the bank and a number of other items. 


ways ." 


The letter of Shri S . D . Vorma, dated 3rd December , 1968 , 
[Ex. C - 20 ( 7 ) ] inter alia states as follows: - - 

... ... .. . . . ... ..Wo havo considered the matter fully and 

aro of the view that Shri Bhatt s further retentiou in 
tho rank is not desirable . 


Please , therofore, arrange to terminate his services by 

paying him salary in lieu of notico in accordance 
with the terms of his contract. " 


All this correspondenco makes it abundantly clear that Shri 
Bhatt s services wore terminated not because thọ work for 
which he was employed was completed or because his work 
was not satisfactory or that there would be no necessity to 
Appoint & substituto , but because he was considered undesir 
ablo . Tho only reason why it appears he has been considered 
undesirablo was his pressing his claims regarding wages, per 
manoncy and other terms and conditions of service , and pur 
guing them through the union by legal methods for gotting his 
gricvancos redressed . If any of his action amounted to Indis 
cipline , as is suggested , ho could not have been discharged 
without a propor enquiry , but this has not been done . He 
obviously has been discharged because of other reason suge 
gosted . I have already indicated earlier the stops taken by 
Shri Bhatt for the redress of his grievances . The one appears 
to bo a complaint under tho Shops & Establishments Act; the 
other conciliation proceedings and tho next a writ petition 
against the Govt. of India for not referring his disputo to 
adjudication , which I have already indicated , Shri Bhatt was 
perfectly within his rights , according to tho prosent concept 
of industrial law to agitato for better terms and conditions of 
service . Morely because the terms and conditions applicd to 
him alono and not to a large group of workers, would not 
bo a bar . Ho was within his rights to approach the union for 
the purpose and for getting the matter entered into concilia 
tion and for attompting to get a reforence for adjudication of 
his disputes . A number of clerk -of-works were , in fact paid 
higher wages at different places than Shri Bhatt. Some of 
them were getting more leave and some increment. What was 
wrong in Shri Bhatt contending that the award of Shri Desai, 
and Shri Sastri applied to him when , in fact, it applied to a 
very largo number of employees . What was wrong in his ask 
ing for bonus liko the other or having tho working hours or 
lçavo facilities or medical bencfits liko others . I am not con 
corned herein with tho question whother Shri Bhatt was in 
error or whether the bank was in error. These questions will 
be determined by proper authorities, but I fail to sco anything 
wrong on tho part of Shri Bhatt in agitating this matter and 
Shri Bhatt undoubtedly was discharged because of his seck 
ing revision of his service conditions. I am , thereforc , of the 
opinion that tho discharge of Shri Bhatt was mala file and 
amounted to victimisation and unfair labour practico . 


The determination of this question would depend upon 
the determination of the question as to whether he was en 
titled to the benefits of the Desai Award and a number of 
other questions. The union on bis behalf had called upon the 
Government to refor this dispute for adjudication which the 
Government of India declined and the writ petition has been 
filed before the Hon ble High Court of Gujarat for issue of a 
writ to the Government of India to refer the disputo . That 
petition is pending, though after the hearing was over I lcarnt 
that tho writ has been granted to Shri Bhatt. But so far as I 
an concerned tho question whother Shri Bhatt is entitled to 
those amounts or not is not boforo me and in this reference 
I have no jurisdiction to determine those questions. I shall , 
therefore , dotermine the question of compensation in this 
matter only on the basis of the last salary drawn by him , 
1.o ., of Rs. 500 . There is evidence on record as to the period 
during which Shri Bhatt remained unemployed and the period 
subsequent to his discharge ho has beon employed . From 
November , 1969, onwards Shri Bhatt has joined Vakil Mahta 
Parikh Shoth , consulting engineers , and he is drawing a 
monthly salary of Rs. 500 plus a project and outstation allo 
wance of Rs. 200 ; from July , 1970 , to October, 1970 , 
Rs. 550 and an allowance of Rs, 200 ; from Novomber, 1970 , 
to March , 1971, he was drawing a salary of Rs. 750, plus 
allowance of Rs. 50 , and from April, 1970 , onwards Rs. 800 
and an allowance of Rs. 50 . Prior to 1st November, 1969, he 
had worked as part time for Vakil, Mahta Parikh Sheth on 
a salary of Rs. 150 and also worked as an engincer from 1st 
August, 1969, to 1st November , 1969 , with the New Shorrock 
Mills on a salary of Rs. 400 plus dearness allowance which 
camo to about Rs. 180 per month at that time. Shri Bhatt 
has claimed , therefore , Rs. 3 , 000 for about 6 months on tho 
basis of his salary of Rs. 500 which appears to be extremely 
fair and the bank has led no evidence to show that this 
amount is not the correct amount. It appears to me, there 
fore , proper to award Rs. 3 , 000 as compensation for the 
period during which he remained unemployed and not more . 
I have come to the conclusion that the discharge of Shri 
Bhatt was mala fide . The work for which he was employed , 
if he had not been discharged , it appears to me would 
have continued for a good part of 1974 . He would have thus 
got omployment for a period of 5 to 6 years after his dis 
charge . I am now not reinstating him because it appears to 
me that though this was a case of malu fide discharge , since 
the work is likely to be over in a yoar or a year and a half , 
It would be futile to reinstate him , I am , therefore , awarding 
him componsation in lieu of reinstatement. Whilst no princi 
ples can be laid down, there are a number of decisions of the 
Supromo Court, where large amounts have bcen awarded as 
compensation in lieu of reinstatement even to persons who 
have put in comparatively short period of service. In the case 
of Assam Oil Company Ltd . and Its workmon , (reported in 
1960 , I, LLI , p . 587 ) , where the salary of the respondent 
was Rs. 535 , the Supreme Court thought it proper to award 
Rs. 12 , 500 as compensation . However , the amount of com 
pensation to be awarded in lieu of reinstatement would depend 
upon the facts of each case. It appears to me taking all facts 
into consideration that in the present instance it would be 
advisable to award an amount cquivalent to twelve months 
galary last drawn by Shri Bhatt as compensation in lieu of ro 
instatement. This would come to about Rs. 6 , 000 . The 

amount of compensation , therefore , apart from costs, would 
work out to about Rs. 9 , 000 . 


Tho next question is the relief to be granted . It is not neces 
sary for me to refer to a large number of authoritics referred 
to by both the sides as to when reinstatement should be 
granted and when reinstatement should not be granted . Tbo 
substance of those authorities is that ordinarily reinstatement 
should be granted , but there may be circumstances when the 
samo may not be granted ; that this is a matter of discretion 
which should be exercised judicially after taking all the cir 
cumstances into consideration . I do not thing in the circum 
stances of this case it would be advisable to order reinstate 
mont. Shri Bhatt was appointed for the duration of the pre 
sent extension of the building . It may not be strictly relevant 
whether he was appointed only for the first phase or for all 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1761 


- 


Shri Bhatt s consistent stand has been that ho was very 
nuch underpaid particularly looking to what was paid to other 
clerks - of - works; that he was entitled to increments, etc . 
Further that he was entitled to overtime, bonus and a number 
of benefits . The amount that would become payable on that 
score or not would depend upon the ultimato decision as to 
whether he was entitled to those amounts or not. The Tribu 
nal to which if the matter is ultimately referred , will certainly 
look into those claims. I would like, however, to make it 
clear , so far as compensation is concerned , that the compen 
sation has been worked out by mo on the basis of 6 months 
for the period of unemployment and 12 months in lieu of re 
instatement, i.e ., in all for 18 months. This has been calcu 
lated on the last salary actually drawn by him of Rs. 500 
and not necessarily on the basis of what salary justifiably he 
was entitled to . If as a result of any fresh adjudication which 

may be granted. his salary is revised beyond Rs. 500 , with 
would be desirable that he should be paid the difference . I, 
therefore, direct as follows: 
( a ) Shri Bhatt be paid by way of compensation an 

amount of Rs. 9 ,000 (Rupees nine thousand only ) . 
(b ) If as a result of any adjudication in future his last 

salary payable to him is revised upward , the diffe 
rence between the salary actually paid to him , i.e ., 
Rs. 500 and the salary so fixed multiplied by 18 

should also be paid to him . 
This adjudication has dragged on for a long time. A large 
Aumber of preliminary points have been taken up and 
Shri Bhatt had to incur considerablo expenso in connection 
with his adjudication . His stand has been grcatly vindicatod . 
I, therefore, direct that he should be paid Rs . 1, 000 by way 
of costs. This would possibly meot only part of the cxpenses 
that he has to incur , 

I direct that the amount of Rs. 9,000 plus Rs. 1, 000 of 
costs be paid to Shri Bhatt within two weeks from the dato 
this Award becomes enforceable . The remaining amount inay 
or may not becomo payablo and , therefore, no directions as 
to when it should be paid are given . 
INDRAJIT G . THAKORE , Presiding Officer 

[ No. 23 / 8 / 69- LR III ] 
Ahmedabad , 
17th April, 1973 . 

KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy . 
श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 19th February , 1973 
S. O . 1290. - Whereas the Central Government is of opi . 
nion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the management of Sand Stone Mine of Shri 
Kartar Singh , Chhawani, Kota , and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto anncxed; 
____ And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desir 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A and clausc ( d ) of suh -section ( 1 ) of Section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribu 
nal with Shri Updesh Narain Mathur As Presiding Officer 
with headquarters at Jaipur and refers the said dispute for ad 
judication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether thc workmen employed in the Budhpura Sand 

Stone Mine of Shri Kartar Singh, Chhawani, Kota 
( Rajasthan ) are entitled for grant of any paid 
national and festival holiday ? 

[ No. L-29011 /69/ 72-LR IV] 
आदेश 


आदेश 

नई दिल्ली, 19 फरवरी , 1973 
का . आ . 1290. - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्नाक्ट विषयों के बारे में श्री करतार 
सिंह की बलुआ पत्थर खान , छावनी, कोटा के प्रबंधतंत्र से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक आयोगिक विवाद 
विद्यमान है , 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विषाव को न्यायनिर्णधन के लिए 
निशत करना वांछनीय समझती है । 
___ अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 
का 14) की धारा रक और धारा 10 की उपधारा 
(1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, केन्द्रोंग सरकार एक औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित 
करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री उपवंश 
नारायण माभर होंगे , जिनका मुख्यालय जयपुर होगा और उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त औद्योगिक अधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णधन के लिए 
निर्देशित करती है । 

अमसूची 
क्था श्री करतार सिंह की अधपुरा बलुआ पत्थर खान , छापनी , 
कांटा (राजस्थान ) में नियोजित कर्मकार किसी सर्वतन राष्ट्रीय 
और स्याहारिक अवकाश -दिन के हकदार हैं । 

[ सं . एल - 29011 / 09/ 72- एल . आर.-47 


नई पिल्ली, 14 मार्च, 1973 
का . आ . 1201. – यसः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में श्री खूब चन्ध, 
मेसर्स डालमिया पादरी सीमेंट लिमिटेड, चरखी दादरी खदान के 
ठेकेदार के प्रबन्धतंत्र सं सम्बन्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्माकारों 
के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती है , 

अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 
14) की धारा एक और धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1) के खण्ड ( घ ) 

द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा एक औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है , जिसके 
पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री . आ . पी . शर्मा होंगे, जिनका मुख्यालय 
फरीदाबाद होगा और उक्त विवाद को उक्त आयोगक अधिकरण 
को न्यायनियन के लिएनिशित करती है । 

___ अनुसूची 
" क्या श्री खूबचन्द , मैसर्स डालमिया दादरी सीमंट लिमिटेड, 

घखी दादरी के खदान ठेकेदार के प्रबंधतंत्र की , श्री राम 
क, मार, कर्मकार का नाम मस्टर रोल से काट देने की 
कार्यवाई वैध और न्यायोचित थी ? याद नहीं तो वह किस 
अनसोष का हकदार है ? 

[ सं . एल .-20012/ 4 /73 एल . आर .-4 ] 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 14th March, 1973 
S. O . 1291. - Whercas the Central Government is of 
opinion that ani industrial dispute oxist between the 
cmployers in iclation to the management of Shri Khub Chand , 
Quarry Contractor of Messrs Dalmia Dadri Cement Limited , 
Charkhi Dadri and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specificd in the Schedulc hcrcto annoxed ; 

And , whercas, the Central Government considers it desir 
ablc to refer the said dispute for adjudication , 

Now , therefore , in cxcrcise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A and clausc ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 10 
of the Industrial Disputcs Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the 
Cential Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribun 
al with Shri 0 . P . Sharma as Picsiding Officer with head 
quarters at laridabad and içfers the said dispute for ud 
judication to the suid Industrial Tribunal. 


1762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[PART II 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Shri Khub 

Chand , Quarry Contractor of Messrs Dalima Dadri 
Cement Limited , Charkhi Dadri, in stiiking off the 
name of Shri Ram Kumar , a workman , from the 
Muster Roll was legal and justified ? If not, to 
what relief is he entitled ? 


For the Assam Petroleum Mazdoor Union : 

(i) Shri K . Borthakur, Advocate , and 
( ii ) Shri A . R . Borthakur, Bar -at-law . 


AWARD 


INo. L - 29012 / 4 / 73 -LR . IV ] 


आवरा 
the forest, 16 


, 1973 


By Order No. 7 ( 8 ) /70 -LR - IV dated 11th May, 
1971, the Government of India , in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation , Department of Labour and Employment, 
rcferred the dispute between the management of M /s . Assam 
Oil Co. Ltd ., Digboi, and their workmen represented by 
Assam Petroleum Mazdoor Union , Digboi, to this Tribunal 
under section 10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as 
amended , for adjudication of the following issue : - 


" To what quantum of bonus for the accounting ycar 

1969 , the workmen of the Assain Oil Company 
limited are entitled to under the “ Payment of 
Bonus Act, 1965 ?" 


On receipt of this reference , this was duly registered and 
notice was issued to the parties to submit their Written 
Statements . On receipt of this notice , the parties filed their 
Written Statements and also Additional Written Statements , 
and when the case was ready it was fixed for hearing for 
the first time on 3 - 11 -71 on which dato although all the parties 
were present, due to thç absence of the Counsel for tho 
A . O . C . Labour Union , on a petition from the said Union 
tho hearing had to be adjourned till 17 - 1 - 72. On 3 - 11-71 
the management however filed somo documents which were 
marked as Exhibit- 1 to Exhibit- 21. On this date , the Assam 
Petroleum Mazdoor Union also fled three documents which , 
on admission by the management, were marked as Exhibit- A 
to Exhibit- C . 


* T. 3 . 1962.- 2 . HRA HAT 37 38 tarin 
HET 77 3rfere HET # T. 31. 458 artar 5 92927 , 
1983 द्वारा गठित श्रम न्यायालय , जिसका मुख्यालय जालन्धर 
है , के पीठासीन अधिकारी का पद रिक्त हो गया है । 

37773, 377, atquifite paar afufaen, 1947 ( 1947 1 
14 ) की धारा 8 के उपबन्धों के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा श्री पी . सी . सैनी को उपयुक्त रूप में गठित श्रम 
न्यायालय का पीठासीन अधिकारी नियुक्त करती है । 

[ 9T. # 9 - 11011/ 4 / 73 - , 317 .-1 ] 

एस . एस . सहस्त्रानामन , अवर सचिव 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 16th April, 1973 
S . Q . 1292 . - - Whercas a vacancy has occurred in the 
ollice of the Presiding Officer of the Labour Court with 
headquarters at Jullundbur, constituted by the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment No. S . 0 . 458 , datetd the 5th February , 1963 ; 

Now , therefore. in pursuance of the provisions of sec 
tion 8 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri P . C . Saini 
as the Presiding Officer of the Labour Court constituted 
as aforesaid . 

[ F . No. S -11011 / 4 / 73- LR LJ 

S . S. SAHASRANAMAN 
New Delhi, the 25th April , 1973 
S .O . 1293 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hercby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Assam , Dibrugarh , in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Assam Oil Company Limited , Digboi and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 17th 
April, 1973 . 


On 17 - 1 - 72, the duto fixed for next hearing of this casc, 
the Unions filed a joint petition seeking certain clarifications 
to the Balance -Sheet etc , of the Company, Exhibit- 19 and 20 
from the management. The management gave reply in writ 
ing on the clarifications sought by the Unions on the follow 
ing date . Thcrcafter a hearing was given to the parties on 
this petition and the Tribunal was pleased to pass the 
Order No . 16 of 21 - 3 - 72 . The relevant portion of the above 
Order reads as follows : 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL OF ASSAM AT DIBRUGARH 


Present : 


Shri G . N . Borah , M . A ., LL . B ., Barrister- at-law , Presiding 
Officer , Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Dibrugarh , Assam . 
In the mattor of an Industrial dispute 

BETWEEN 
The Management of M /s Auşam Oil Company Ltd ., 
Digboi, Assam . 

AND 
Their Workmen represented by Assan Patroleum 
Mazdoor Union , Digboi, Assam . 

Reference No. 13 of 1971 
Appearances : 

For thc Managoment- Shri I. K . Ghosh , Advocate, 

For thc A .O . C . Labour Union — Shri D . Narsingh , 
Advocate. 


" . . . it is clear from the perusal of the written statements 

Aled by the Unions that the Unions have challenged 
the Balançc - Sheet in general, and it is proper for 
the Unions to ask for clarifications under section 23 
of the Payment of Bonus Act. From a plain reading 
of this section , it is also clear that the partics cannot 
be allowed to make a roving inspection into the 
Balance Sheet. If they (Unions ) have any doubt 
regarding certain items of the Balance Sheet they 
have to specifically state those with reasons for the 
doubts and then only the parties can be allowed 
to probe into thọ correctness or otherwise of these 
specific items in the Balance Sheets . It is not 
denied by the Unions that the Balance Sheets aro 
duly audited and as such under section 23 of the 
said Act statements and particulars contained in the 
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account ought 
to be taken as accurate unless it is proved other 

wise ." 
" The Unions case is that as far as the figures in the 

Balance Sheet are concerned , they entertained no 
doubt but they questioned the justifiability of inclu 
sion of certain items in the Balance - Sheet. They 
alleged that inclusion of certain items in the 
Balance- Sheet have reduced the Company s proflts , 

and consequently their quantum of bonus. 
It is noticed that in reply to the Unions petition for 

clarification , the management have given somo 
clarifications to the Unions query on the Balance 
Sheet. Profit and Loss Account and on the Com 
putation Chart. Although the Unions do not seem 
to have accepted these clarifications , I do not think 
the management can be asked to give further clari 
fications at this stage till the Unions are able to 
raise specific issue on the accuracy or justifiability 
of an entry into Exhibit- 19 and the Computation 
Chart in support of their case . 


- - 


- 


-- - 


- 


- - 


1763 
SEÇ . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

- - - - 

- - 
Subject to the above conditions , the partics will be at grcnt importuncc . The Counsel submits that the Balancc 

liberty to adduce any evidence they please regurding Sheet, Proſit and Loss Account and the Computation Chart 
the accuracy , justifiability or otherwise of the entrics all suffer from the following infirmities, for which the State 
into the Balance Sheet, Profit aod Loss Account ment of Accounts should not be relied upon and hence 
and the Computation Chart ." 

these should be discarded : 
Thereafter the hearing of this reference continued and 

( 1 ) that the Balance Sheet has not been duly authenti 
although the parties were allowed to adducc any oral evidence 

cated by the Auditors , and this is a serious defect ; 
they pleased iegarding the accuracy or otherwise of the 
Balance- Sheet, Profit and Loss Account and the Computa 

(2 ) that the figures in the Balance Sheet have been duly 
tion Chart in the light of the observations made in the 

challenged As incorrect by way of seeking clarifica 
above order, they declined to adduce any oral evidence and 

tions. There is no specified method of challenging 
they were prepared to rely on the papers marked as cxhibits 

the Balance- Sheet and the Unions challenged the 
for the case . Evidence was thereafter treated as closed and 

samc by asking the Management to give some clari 
the parties argued their case at length before me, 

fications. The management immediately gave their 

clarifications but this was given in a very cryptic 
The case for the management is that this reference is a 

and sketchy manner , and since the entries in the 
result of a settlement, Exhibit- 5 , entered on 30 - 9 - 70 whereby 

Balance -Shcct have been challenged it was the duty 
the parties agreed to inake a joint application to the Govt. 

of the management to come out with adequate proof 
Exhibit- 1, for adjudication of this dispute on payment of 

on the entries cither through documentary evidence 
bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act (hereinafter called the 

or even by Oral cvidence . But the management 
Act ) . As such , all claims and relief must be had by the parties 

choses to give no evidence although they had full 
through the provisions of this Act . The management submitted 

access to the books and decided to rely only on 
that since the Unions were not able to specifically point out any 

the papers already submitted and exhibited . Since 
inaccuracy in the Balance Sheet either through documentary 

the books of accounts are in the custody of the 
or oral evidence inspite of the opportunity given to the Unions 

management it is well neigh impossible for the 
by the Tribunal the Balance - Sheet ought to be treated as 

Unions to lead evidence on the inaccuracy of the 
accurate representation of the financial position of the Com 

Balance Sheet and as such the Unions could not 
pany. This also applies to the Profit and Loss Account and 

lead any evidence on this subject. The Unions 
the Computation Chart As they are compiled after the 

next submit that there is no special sanctity attached 
Balancc - Sheet is prepared . The Counsel further submitted 

to the Balance -Shect as such. Once the entries and 
that the Computation Chart has been prepared strictly accord 

figures in the Balance Sheet arc challenged in what 
ing to the provisions of the Act on the basis of the Profit 

ever form these may be done it is the duty of the 
and Loss Account and the Balance - Sheet, the figures of which 

management to come out with all the papers and 
are not specifically challenged by the Unions. The learned 

books they rely on and prove the figures and en 
Counsel next argues that since this reference is a result of a 

trics made in the same to the satisfaction of the 
settlement or an agreement the Unions cannot now be 

Court and the parties concerned . Under Section 
allowed to plead that the bonus be paid on the basis of five 

23 of the Act there is only a presumption that the 
months wages which is not contemplated under the Act . 

audited Balance-Sheet is accurate . But this pre 
The Counsel further argued thnt bonus have always been 

sumption is only a rebuttable presumption and the 
paid to the workers either under an award or under an 

management s stand that the Balance- Sheet is 
agreement arrived at between the parties and that the Written 

sacrocant and could not be touched is not justified . 
Statements of the Unions stating that bonus was paid on an 

In support of these arguments , the learned Counsels 
uniform rate of five months wages of the workers is not 

for the Unions rely on the following rulings of the 
correct. If one goes through the history on this matter , it 

Hon ble Supreme Court : 
will be noticed that the Company paid honus to their em 

1. Petlad Turkey Red Dye Works Co . Ito 
ployees either under an award such as Siri S . P . Verma s 

- V8. 
Award and Shri Puri s Award or by virtue of agreements . 
Even after the passing of the Act in 1965 the management 

Dyes & Chemical Workers Union 
paid bonus to their employees on the basis of agreement 

- reported in 1960 , Vol. I, L .L .J., page 548 , 
covered by Section 34 of the Act. It was only in 1969 this 
reference was made on a joint application by the parties as 

2 . Khandesh Spinning & Weaving Mills Co . Ltd . 
no agreement could be arrived at between the parties . 

Jalgaon . 

- - VS. 
The learned Counsel for the management next argues that 

Rashtriya Girni Kamgar Sangh , Jalgaon . 
even after this reference was made the management made 

- reported in 1960 , L . L .J., Vol. I, page 541. 
an ad interim payment as per Exhibit -6 not in supersession 
but subject to this award pending adjudication . As such , the 

3 . M /s. Aluminium Corporation of India Ltd . 
Counsel submits that the sum of money paid on this account 

- - V9. 
has to be adjusted against the sum of money that will have 

Their Workmen . 
to be paid to the cmployees after an award is made . 

- - reported in 1963, L . L .J . Vol. II, page 629 . 
The learned Counsel thercafter re - iterated most of the 

4 . Burn & Co . Ltd . - V5, - Their Workmen. 
Arguments in support of the accuracy of the Company s 

— reported in 1964, Vol. 1, L .LJ., page 370 . 
Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account and the Computation 
Chart he put forward in the hearing given to the parties ear 

5 . Azam Jabi Mills Ltd . -- VS. — Their Workmen . 
lier in this regard . 

- reported in 1967, L . L .J ., Vol. II, page 18 . at 

page 22 . 
Shri Narsingh , the Counsel for the A . O . C . Labour Union 
and Shri K . Borthukur, the Counsel for the Assam Petroleum 

6 . Manager , Cannanore Spinning & Weaving Mills 
Mazdoor Union , both argued their caso separately before 

I til . 
me. But as these arguments are materially the same, I pro 

SV9. 
posed to deal with them together. At the outset, the learned 

Cannanore Spinning & Weaving Mills Workerx 
Counsel for the A . O . C . Labour Union drew the attention of 

Union . 
this Tribunal that Exhibit- 18 , the settlement, has no binding 

- -reported in 1967, L .LJ., Vol II, page 733 at pago 
effect on the employees belonging to this Union as they were 

735. 
not parties to this settlement. This settlement was exccuted 
between the management and the Assam Petroleum Mazdoor 

7 . Metal Box Company of India Ltd . - V8. — Thelr 
Union . In this connection , the learned Counsel cites tho 

Workmen . 
Supreme Court case of - Sanghvi Jeevraj Ghewar Chand 

--- reported in 1969 , L .L .J., Vol. I. page 785, para 8 . 
- Vs. - Madras Chillies, Grains and Kirana Merchants Wor 
kers Union , reported in 1969, L .LJ., Vol. I, page 719 , How 

8 , Oriental Gas Company Ltd . --- V5. - Their Workmen . 
ever , the Counsel submits that this point is no longer impor 

- reported in 1971, L . L .J., Vol. II, page 657 at 
tant after the referenco is made on this dispute and the 

page 663, paragraph 18 and 19 . 
Unions concede that this matter must now be guided by the 

9 . Binny Limited -- V5 . - Their Workmen . 
Act irrespective of whatever took place in the past. As such 

- reported in 1972 , L .L .J ., May issue, page 449. 
the Balance Sheet for the accounting year 1969 assumes 

- 18 . 


- 


- 


- 


1764 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[PART II — 
- - - - 

- Y 3 
10 . The Indian Link Chala Manufacturers I td . 

out the accuracy of such statements and parti 
Their Workmen . - reported in 1971, LT. J., Vol. IJ . 

çulars , 
page 581, 

( 2 ) When an application is made to the said authority 
The Uniong next submit that since the Balance- Sheet , 

by any trade union being a party to the disputo or 
Profit & Loss Account and the Computation Chart cannot 

where there is no trade union , by the employees 
bc relied upon it would be meet and proper for the Tribunal 

being a party to the dispute , requiring any clarifi 
to discard the same and award payment of bonus for 5 ( five ) 

çation relating to any item in the balance- sheet or 
months as this has always been the custom in this Company. 

the profit and logs account, it may, after satisfying 
As regards the interim payment of bonus in the year in 

itself that such clarification is necessary , by order , 
question made by the Company as per Exhibit- 8 , the Councis 

direct the corporation or , Ag thc cage may be, the 
submit that this was purely an ex- gratia payment without any 

company, to furnish to the trade union or the 
relation to the salaries drawn by the recipients and as such 

employees such clarification within Auch time as 
the question of deduction of this amount from whatever that 

may bo specified in the direction and the corpora 
may be awarded by tho Tribunal cannot ariso . 

tion or, as the case may be , the company , shall 

comply with such direction ." 
It must be clearly understood that this reference was made 
under the Payment of Bonus Act. The Tribunal is asked to 

I feel, the management is right in their contention that 
detormine the quantum of bonus under the Act for tho 

some amount of sanctity ought to be given to an audited 
accounting ycar 1969. This mçans that whatever relicf the 

Balance - Sheet until And unless the Trado Unlons mako 
parties wish to seek must be sought within the frame work 

positive allegations and assertions that certain items in tho 
of the Act. There is no scope under the Act to determino 

damo are falsely and inaccurately entered into . But the 
the quantum of bonus on the basis of monthly galary drawn 

Unions have made no guch allegations and were only con 
by the employees unless there is an agreement or prevelant 

tend to seek clarification and the management gave their 
custom to make such payment. I have no proof before me 

clarifications, The Unions plea is that as all the accounts 
that it is customary on the part of the Company to pay 

books are in the custody of the management it is extremely 
bonus to the employees on the basis of monthly salary drawn 

difficult for them to point out the inaccuracy is not tonable . 
hy them . It is not denicd by tho Company that the wor 

From the foregoing pago , it will be noticed that the Tribunal 
kers were in the past sometimes paid bonus on the basis of 

gave the Unions full opportunity to adduce any evidence oral 
monthly wages or salaries drawn by the employceg oven 

or documentary they pleased regarding inaccuracy of the 
after the passing of the Act in 1965. But this was done 

Balance Sheet and call for any record books of accounts 
strictly under agreements or awards and such payments are 
therefore covered by Section 34 ( 3 ) of the Act. As the parties 

they pleased for this purpose . They did not Avail of this 

opportunity , and tho Balance- Shcet, Profit and loss Account 
could not come to an agreement regarding the quantum of 

and the Computation Chart should therefore be takes as true 
bonus for the accounting year 1969 they entered into a 

representation of the financial position of the Company. As 
gettlement as per Exhibit- 5 to make joint appeal to the 

stated above , the learned Counsel for the Unions cited several 
Govt, to refer this matter for adjudication under section 

Supremo Court cases regarding the 
10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

extent of sanctity ono 
In thọ circumstance , 

ought to give to the Balanco - Sheet. Their lordships of the 
It is not understood how the Unions can mako claim for 

Hon ble Supreme Court are uniform of their opinion that 
bonus on the basis of 5 ( five ) months galary when there 

there is a strong presumption that an audited Balance - Shçet 
19 no scope of making such payments under the Act. As 

ig an accurate representation of thợ Company s financial 
guch , the Unions claim for bonus on the basis of 5 ( five ) 

position till it is proved to be inaccurato . " The issue of 
months salary or wage cannot thereforo be entertained . 

accuracy or otherwise of the Balance-Shcet can be at largo 
The only question now remains is to ge¢ what quantum 

before the Tribunal only when positive allegations are mado 
of bonus the employees are entitled to in respect of account 

by the Unions on tho propriety of entries and tho accuracy 
ing year 1969. The Company is only agreeable to pay the 

of the figures in the Balance - sheet. Even in the recont caso 
minimum bonus to the cmployees at 4 per cent of the 

of Metal Box Company of India Ltd . — V $. Their Work 
salaries or wages earned by the employees during the ac 

men , reported in 1969, L .LJ., Vol. I, pago 785 , which is a 
counting yoar prescribed under the Act and expressed their 

case after the implementation of tho Act, the Unions wero 
inability to pay more. In support of their caso , the manage 

allowed to probe into the correctness or otherwise of tho 
ment have submitted their Balanco -Sheet, Profit and Loss 
Account and the Computation Chart 

disputed figures only after tho employees mado positivo alle 
As stated above , tho 

gationg and assertions regarding the inaccuracy of the figures . 
Unions criticised these papers over and ovor again and In 

It is certain that po roving inspection of Balance Sheet onco 
pisted that the Balance -Sheet along with Profit and Loss 
Account and the Computation Chart should be rejected as 

audited can be allowed or else Under Section 23 of the 

Act would be meaningless . Besides the Unions caso is fur 
tho clarifications given by the management are not satisfac 

ther weakened as tho Balance - Sheet, Profit and Loss Account 
tory . Tho management, on the other hand , took shelter under 

and the Computation Chart wero marked as exhibits on their 
section 23 of the Act which reads as follows : 

own admission and it does not lie now in their mouth to 
Section, 23. 

say that they are not true Balanco- Sheet. Further , the Unlong 
" Prosumption about accuracy of Balance Sheet and Profit 

contention that this is not a truely audited Balanco -Sheet is 
& Logs Account of Corporations and Companies : 

not tenablo . The Balanco - Sheet is auditod and certified by 

the firm of Price Waterhouso & Co ., Calcutta , duly signed by 
( 1 ) Whore , during the course of proceedings before any the auditors in tho copy of Exhibit- 20 submitted and pro 

arbitrator or Tribunal under the Industrial Disputes duced beforo this Tribunal on 31- 1 -73 to which no objection 
Act, 1947 , .. .. . . . .. .. .. ..to which any dispute of the was raised regarding this document by the Unions. It is a 
nature specified in Section 22 has been referred , common knowledgo that the auditors are liable to criminal 
the balance -sheet and the profit and loss account action if a certificato is lasued without verification of accounts . 
of an employer , being a corporation or a company It is also a common knowledge that the Balance - Sheet of the 
( other than a banking company ) , duly audited by Company has to be submitted before the various authorities 
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or by such as Income Tax Authorities , Registrar of Companies, etc . 
auditors duly qualified to act as auditors of com for which correctness of figures or entries in the Balanco 
panies under sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 226 of Sheet have to be doubly assured . I have therefore no reason 
the Companios Act, 1936 , are produced before it, to disbelieve the certificate issued by the auditors in this 
then , the sald authority may presume the statements regard . Thus , in tho ontiro view of the matter , I am Inclinod 
and particulars contained in such balance -sheet and to accept the Balance- Sheet and Profit and Long Account as 
profit and loss account to be accurate and it shall true statement of accounts . 
not be necessary for the corporation or the company 
to prove the accuracy of guch statements and parti 
culars by the filing of an affidavit or by any other 

The position regarding the Computation Chart is however 
modo : 

different. The Computation Chart is usually propared by the 

Company and thero is no presumption of correctness of 
Provided that where the said authority is satisfied that thene Charts . For this reason , the learned Counsel for the 

the statements and particulars contained in the management took me through all the items in the Computa 
balance -sheet or the profit and loss account of the tion Chart in a most pain staking manner . I am satisfied 
corporation or the company are not accurate , it that the management have carefully followed all the rele 
may take such steps as it thinks necessary to find vant provisions of the Act and schedules under the Act 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


Şec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15, 1895 

1765 
- - - - - -- - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - -- - - - -- -- - - - -- - - 
while picparing this Computation Chart. Further , while 

whichever is higher under section 10 of the Payment 
going through overy items in the Computation Chart the 

of Bonus Act, 1965. 
learned Counsel gave an adequate explanation as to why the 
items included in the Computation Chart had to be included I give this Award on this 3rd day of April, 1973 , at 
in the said Cbart and I am satisfied with the explanations Dibrugarh . 
given by the management in this regard The management 
however pointed out to this Tribunal that there has been a 

[No. 7 (8 ) / 70-LR IVI 
slight mathematical mistake in calculation in right band 

G . N . BORAH , Presiding Officer 
column of the Computation Chart in which figure Rs. 54 .65 

Assam , Dibrugarh . 
lacs should read as Rs. 65.22 lacs and the management 
therefore filed 2 revised statement in two shects giving full 

S . O . 1294 . - 10 pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
break up of how the figure of Rs. 65.22 lacs was arrived at 

Dispures Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
along with a petition that these two shcots should replace 

hereby publishes the following awurd of the Industrial Tribunal 
Sheet No. 4 of Exhibit - 19 and included in Exhibit- 19, the 

Ahmedaliud , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
Computation Chart Tho Unions raised no objection to the 

in relation to the management of Messrs. Bagwada Stone 
management s prayer made in this regard . I do not think 

Supplying Company, Sur du their workmen , which was re 
that the Unions will be prejudiced in any way if the manage 

ceived by the Central Government on the 16th April, 1973 , 
ment s prayer is granted as , if thọ figure Rs. 63.22 lacs is 
taken instead of the figure Rs. 54 .65 lacs then the loss gus 

BEFORE SHRI INDRAJIT G . THAKORE , PRESIDING 
tained by the Company will be Rs. 13 .85 lacs and not 

OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, AHMEDABAD 
Rs. 3. 06 lacs as shown in the Computation Chart, Exhibit- 19 . 
I therefore think, these two shçets should be included in 

Reference (ITC ) No. 4 of 1972 
Exhibit- 19 , the Computation Chart. The Unions , however , 
were very critical about this mistake pointed out by the 

BETWEEN 
management themselves . They argued that the wholo Com 
putation Chart should be rejected on account of this as 

The Employers in relation to the Management of Messrs . 
there could be more mistakes in this Chart had the manage 

Bagwada Stone Supply Company, Surat. 
ment come out with all the books of accounts or tendered 

AND 
oral evidence. This argument is not understood . It is not 
for the management to bring all the books of accounts in 

Their Workmen 
support of their statements and Charts they have submitted 
This duty is cast on the management only after the Opposite 

In the matter of non-payment of bonus 20 per cent of 
Party challenges particular items of various statement of 

earned wages . 
account and Charts produced by them and call for the 
books to satisfy them on these items challenged . I do not Appearances: 
think the above mistakes pointed out by the management 
in the Computation Chart Exhibit- 19 is very vital and 

No onc — for the Company . 
Exhibit - 19 can be accepted as correct with the necessary 

Shri J. I. Shah - -for the Workmen . 
correction sheets submitted by the management in the course 
of hearing. 

AWARD 
Thus having come to this findings , it is now necessary to This industrial dispute between the employers in rclation to 
see what quantum of bonus can be allowed to the emplo the management of Messrs . Bagwada Stonc Supply Company, 
yees . It will be noticed from the Computation Chart that Surat , and their workmen has been referred to me fui adjudi 
there is no allocable surplus in tho accounting year in ques cation as Industrial Tribunal uncler clause ( d ) of sub - section 
tion . As such , the Company cannot be asked to pay more ( 1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by 
than the statutory minimum laid down in the Act. 

the Govt. of India , Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation , 
It is poticed that as per Exhibit- 8 pending adjudication of Department of Labour & Employment, Order No . 
this dispute the management offered and paid to the emplo L -29011( 28 ) / 72 -LR IV , dated 291h July , 1972. The dispute 
yees an ad interim bonus on account of the accounting year relates to a demand for bonns for the accounting years Samvat 
1969 a lump sum amount to every employee basing on the 2024 , 2025 and 2026 . 
salary he draws according to the schedules attached with 
Exhibit- 8 . The management contend that this payment was In this matter Shri J. I. Shah who has appeared for the 
made under section 17 of the Act and as such they should union has stated that as the matter is settled out of Court, the 
be allowed to deduct the gym from tho amount they would union does not desire to prouced with this mater . In the 
be liable to pay under this award . The Unions vehemently circumstances, the dispute does not survive for adjudication 
opposed these contentions made by the learned Counsel for and stands disposed of. 
the management and said that section 17 of the Act is not 
attracted and thiş payment was made without any basis and 

Ahinedabad, 
should therefore be taken As ex - gratia payment. The Coun 

31st March , 1973. 
sel for the A . O . C . Labour Union also said that they were 
not a party to this agreement, Exhibit-6 , which has resulted 

INDRAUIT G . THAKORE, Presidin Officer 
in the offer in Exhibit -8 and they cannot therefore be bound 

[No. L - 29011( 28 ) / 72 -1.R . IV ) 
by this agreement, and if the management made any pay 
ments these payments are undoubtedly ex - gratia payment, 

New Delhi, the 26th April, 1973 
and deduction should not bo made from the amount awarded 
by this Tribunal. 

S . O . 1295. 1n pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
I do not think Section 17 of the Act is attracted in this hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial THbunal 
caso as Exhibit- 8 do not stato in preciso terms that this Gujarat, Ahmedabad in the industrial dispute between the em 
payment was made against the bonus payable under the Act, ployers in relation to the management of Messis . Shri Laxmi 
and also because this payment was not against any customary 

Stone Industries . Post Oltice Kadwali, Taluka Jhagadia and 
boniis payable to the employecs and this offer under their workmen , which was receiveci by the Central Govern 
Exhibit- 8 was mado long after the bonus became payable . 

ment on the 21st April, 1973. 
It is not known under what other provisions of the Act or 
anyother Acts this payment was made and what was the 

BEFORE SHRI INDRAJIT G . THAKORE , PRESIDING 
basis of these payments . In the circumstance , I do not 

OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , AT AHMEDABAD 
think this amount could be deducted from what tho manage 

Reference (ITC ) No. 9 of 1972 
ment will now be asked to pay bonus under this Act. 

ADIUDICATION 
Thus from the entire view of the matter, the only issue of 

BETWEEN 
this reference is answered as follows : 

Messrs. Shui Laxml Stono Industrica, P . (). Kadwali, 
1, Workmen of the Assam Oil Company Limited are 

Taluka Jhagadia . 
only entitled to payment 

AND 
of minimum bonus of 
4 per cent of their salurics or wages earned by 

The workmen employed under it . 
them during tho accounting year 1969 or Rs. 40 

In the matter of bonus for Samvat Y¢ars 2025 and 2026 , 


- 


- - - 


1766 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II .-- 
__ - - - - - - - - - - - -- - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
AWARD 

In the circumstances the reference does not suivive for 

adjudication and stands disposed of. 
This industrial dispute between the employers in ielation 

INDRAJIT G . THAKORF, Piesiding Officer 
to the management of Messrs . of Shri Laxmi Stone Industries , 

[ No. L-29011024 ) / 72-LR IV ] 
P . O . Kadwali, Taluka Jhugadia and the workmen employed 

S . S. SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 
under it has been referred to me for udjudication under S¢c 
tion 7A and cause ( d ) of sub - section (1 ) of Section 10 of 

Ahmedabad , 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , by the Contrul Government 

31st March , 1973. 
by their Order of the Ministiy of Labour and Rehabilitation , 
No. S .O . dated 26th October , 1972 . "The dispute relates to a 

___ नई दिल्ली , 25 अप्रैल, 1973 

1973 
single demand which is mentioned in the schedule to the 
said order. The Ankleshwar Taluka Kandar Sangh 1109 ştatea का . आ . 1297. - खान अधिनियम , 1952 (1952 का 35 ) की 
as follows : 

धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयग करते 
" That the parties have mutually settled the dispute out 

हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा श्री एस , एस . प्रसाद उप महाशिक 
of the Court . The Second Party , therefore, does 

खान सुरक्षा को श्री एच . बी . घोष , जो छ, ट्टी पर गए हैं के स्थान 
not lesire to proceed with the reference. The same 

पर उस सभी राज्य क्षेत्र के लिए जिस पर उक्त अधिनियम का 
may, therefore, kindly be disposed of accordingly ". 

विस्तार है , 29 मार्च, 1973 को और से अगले आदेश जारी होने तक 
In the circumstances, the reference does not survive for मुख्य खान निरीक्षक , होने के लिए नियुक्त करती है । 
adjudication and stands disposed of . 

[ ए32013/ 1 / 3 एम .-1 ] 
Ahmedabad, 
31st March, 1973. 

आर. कजीथापदम, अवर सतिष 

New Delhi , tha 25th April , 1973 
INDRAJIT G . THAKORE, Presiding Officer S. O . 1297 . ---In excrercise of the powers conferred by sub 
[ No. L. 29011 ( 22 ) / 72- LR IV] 

section ( 1 ) of section 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . S . Prasad , 
Deputy Director General of Mines Safety , to be the Chief 
Inspector of Mines , for all the territories to which the said 

Act extends, on and from the 29th March , 1973 until further 
S . O . 1296. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial orders Vice Shri H . B. Ghose , proceeded on leave , 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribunal 

[ A. 32013 / 1 / 73 - MT] 
Gujarat, Ahmedabad in the industrial dispute between the 

R. KUNJITHAPADAM, Under Secy . 
omployers in relation to the management of M / s. Harjibhai 
Prembhai and Brothers, Post Office, Kogamba, District Surat 
and their workmen , which was received by the Central Goy 
ernment on the 21st April, 1973. 

नई दिल्ली , 21 अप्रैल , 1973 

का . आ . 1298. - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 
BEFORE SHRI INDRAJIT G . THAKORE, PRESIDING 

(1948 का 34) की धारा 3च द्वारा प्रस्त शदिस्तयों का प्रयोग 
OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT AHMEDABAD. 

करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार देक्स्ट बुक मुद्रणालय भवनेश्वर की ऐसे 

क्षेत्र में जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपपंध 
Reference (ITC ) No. 10 of 1972 

प्रवृत्त है , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हए, उक्त मुद्रणालय , को 
ADJUDICATION 

उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 52 के अधीन उमणीय नियोजक 

के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से , इस अधिसूचना के राजपत्र में 
BETWEFN 

प्रकाशन की तारीख से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एसध्वारा छुट 
Messrs. Harjibhai Premjibhai and Brothers , Post Office 

देती है । 
Kosamba, Dist. Surat . 

[ फा , सं . 601 ( 68) / 70-एच आई ] 
AND 
The workmen employed under it . 

New Delhi, the 21st April , 1973 

S. O . 1298 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sec 
In the matter of bonny for the Samvat Years 2025 and tion 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 
2026. 

of 1948 ) , the Central Government , having regard to the 
location of the Text Book Press, Bhubaneshwar in an area 

in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said 
AWARD 

Act are in force , hereby exempts the said Press from the pay 
ment of the employer s special contribution leviable under 

Chapter VA of the said Act for a period of one year with 
This industrial dispute between the employers in relation to effect from the date of publication of this notification in 
the management of Messrs. Harjibhai Premjibhai & Brothers of the official Gazette . 
Post Office Kosainba, District Surat and the worknien em 

[ F. No. 601 (68 ) / 70 - HI] 
ployed under it has been referred to me for adjudication under 
Section 7A and clause ( d ) of sub -section (1 ) of Section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 , by the Central Government 

नई दिल्ली, 21 अप्रैल , 1973 
by their Order of the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation , 
No. S . O . dated 21st November , 1972 . The dispute relates to a 
single demand which is mentioned in the schedule to the said 

___ का . आ . 1299. --कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कदम्ब पैशन 
order . In this matter the Ankicshwar Taluka Kamdar Sangh निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा ( घ ) की उप 
has stated as follows : 

धारा ( 2) द्वारा प्रदस्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत 
" That the said matter has been settled between the parties 

सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
outside the court Hence , thc 2nd party does not विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं . का . आ . 2547 तारीख 24 जुलाई , 1967 
desire to proceed with the matter . Hence the 

को अधिकान्त करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री आर. आर. सहाय के 
reference may be disposed off accordingly , 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAV 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

1767 
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 

- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 
स्थान पर श्री एस . पी . महरोत्रा को केन्द्रीय भविष्य निधि आयक्त 1 2 

3 
- - - - - - - - - - -- 

__ - - - -- - - - - - 
को उसके कर्तव्यों का निर्वहन करने में सहायता देने में लिए, 

10. किवलोन 
समस्त दिल्ली संघ राज्य क्षेत्र के लिए प्रादेशिक भविष्य निधि 

___ पाराबर मैमर्स फ्लारको , परावर 
आयुक्त नियुक्त करती है । । 

थेमकुम्भगम् ममर्स केरल · सी फहमद नीन्दकाश 

11. निचर बेदाफुमरी मैसर्स रेसिनान्स एण्ड केमिकल 
[ सं . ए-12016 ( 16) / 73- पी . एफ . 1 ( ) ] 

प्रोडक्टस 
S. O . 1299. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - - - - 
section ( 2 ) of section 5D of the Employees Provident Funds, 

[ स . एम . 38014 ( 6 )/ 73-ए व० प्राई० ] 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , and in super 
session of the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 

S . O . 1300 . - In exorcise of the powers conferred by section 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . S. O . 2547 73 F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 
dated the 24th July , 1967 , the Central Government hereby 1948 ) the Central Government, having regard to the location 
appoints Shri S . P . Mehrotra as Regional Provident Fund of the factorios specified in colunin ( 4 ) of the Schedule hereto 
Commissioner for the whole of the Union Territory of Delhi annexed in areas specified in column (3 ) of the said Schedule 
to assist the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the in the State of Kerala in which the provisions of Chapters 
discharge of his duties, vice Shri R . R. Sahac . 

IV and V of the said Act, are not in force , hereby exempts 
[ No . A- 12016 / 16 / 73 - PF. I(i)] 

the said factories from the payment of employer s special 

contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for 
का० प्रा० 1300.-- -कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 & Period of one year from the date of publication of this 

notification in the Official Gazette or until the enforcement of 
का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुये केन्द्रीय 

provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in these areas, which 
सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 1) में विनिषिष्ट कारखानो ever is carlier, 
को उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 3) में विनिर्दिष्ट केरल राज्य के ऐसे 

SCHEDULE 
क्षेत्रो मे , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त Sl. No. District Name of Arca Name of the factory 
नही है, प्रथस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुये उक्त कारखानो को उक्त प्रधि 

- - - - - - 
नियम के अध्याय 5-क अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिवाय I. Ernakulan Vellurkuonam Mala Nadu Match 

Products , Kadath 
के सदाय से, इस अधिसूचना के गजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख से एक 

Mekkadanaru , 

Muvattupuzha 
वर्ष की अवधि के लिये या तब तक के लिये जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम 

( Via ) 
के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों मे , प्रवत्स नही हो जाते, जो भी पहले 2. Trichur Kodungallur 

Beat Building Yard 
हो , एतदद्वारा छूट देती है । 

and Workshop 

Kudungallure . 
अनुसूची 

3. Ernakulam Anchelpetty 

Threeking Electric 

Furnace , Anchol 
क्रम स० जिला क्षेत्र का नाम कारखाने का नाम 

petty , Erna 
का नाम 

kulam. 
-- - -- - - -- - - - 

- - 4 . Ernakulan 

Kalpana 
- Eramalloor 

Match 
1 2 3 

Industries , Nel 
likuzhi, ( via ) Ko 

thamangalan . 
1 . एर्नाकुलम वेल्लूरकुनम ममानादु मच प्रोडक्टस , कारण , 

5 . Alleppey Mannar 

Aluminium Industr 
मेक्कादमारु, युवटदपुजा ( बरास्ता ) 

ies Limited Man 
2 निचूर कोडगलूर बोट बिल्डिग यार्ड एण्ड वर्कशाप 

nar Post Office 

Alleppey . 
कोंडगलूर 
6. Palghat Kongad 

Jayachandra Match 
3. एर्नाकुलम अचेलपेट्टी श्रीकिग इलेक्ट्रिक फर्नेस , अंधेल 

Industries , Post 

Kongad Pal 
पेट्टी एर्नाकुलम । 

ghat. 
4 एर्नाकुलम एस्मेलूर कल्पना मैच इण्डस्ट्रीज , नेल्लीफुजी , 7 . Cannanore Kanhiredc 

M/ s Kanhirede We 

avers Co -opera 
( बरास्ता ) कोषामंगलम । 

tive production 

and sales Society 
5. मलेम्पी मनेर ऐल्युमिनियम इस्ट्रीज , लिमिटेड , 

Limited No. 1144 
मन्मेर डाकघर अलेम्पी । 

Koodali. 

M / s 
8. Ernakulam 

O . E. 

Kanayannur 
6. पालघाट कोंगड़ 

N. India 
जयचन्द्र मैच इण्डस्ट्रीज , डाकघर 

Liniited , Mul 
कांगड पालघाट । 

anthuruty . 
7. कन्नौर कान्हीरोडे मैसर्स कान्हीरोडे वीवर्स कोपाप 

9 . Kettayam Kennentheady 

M / s Pannier Power 

Station Vellathu 
रेटिय प्रोडक्शन एण्ड सेल्स सोसा 

valand. 
इटी लिमिटेड , सं० 1144 , 

Changanachery M /S Vijya Match 

and Timber In 

dustries. 
8. एर्नाकुलम कनयापूर मैसर्स मो० ई० एन० इण्डिया 10. Quilon Paravoor 

M /s Flarce , Para 

voor. 
लिमिटेड , मुलन्थुरुथी । 

Thokkuinbagam M /s Kerala 
मेसर्स पनियार पावर स्टेशन बुल्ला 
७. कोट्टायम 

Sea 
कोनानथाडी 

foods Neendakara 
थुवल 

11. Trichur Vedakkumari M /s Resicncns and 
बगनारी मेसर्स विजय मंच एण्ड टिम्बर 

Chomical Prod 
इण्डस्ट्रीज 

ucts . 
_ _ 
- - - - - - - - 

.. 

[ No . S - 38014 /( 6)/ 73- HI] 


कुडाली । 


- - -- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


1768 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 

[ PART II _ 

- - - - 
नई दिल्ली, 23 अप्रैल, 1973 

New Delhi, the 25th April , 1973 

S . O . 1302 . — In exercise of thc powers conferred by sub 
का . आ . 1301. – यसः केन्द्रीय सरकार का समाधान हो गया है 

section (1 ) of Section 13 of the Employees Provident Funds 
कि केन्द्रीय सरकार के औद्योगिक विकास मंत्रालय के स्माल and Family Pension Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), and in super 
इण्डस्ट्रीज सर्विस इंस्टीट्यूटस , इण्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट, आंखला, नई session of the notification of the Government of India in the 
दिल्ली के कर्मकारों को कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 late Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
( 1948 का 34 ) के अधीन उपधिस प्रसुविधाओं जैसी सारतः (Depaitnient of Labour and Timployment) No. S .O . 2548 

dated the 24th Fily , 1967 the Central Government hereby 
प्रसुविधाएं प्राप्त है । । 

appoints Shri S . P . Mehrotra to be an Inspector for the 
अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 90 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 

whole of the Union Territory of Delhi for the purposes of 

the said Act and of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार 

and the Employees Family Pension Scheme tramed there 
और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग) की अधिसूचना 

undei, in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under 
संख्या का , आ . 2493, सारीख 24 जून , 1972 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय 

the control of the Central ( cyernment or in relation to any 
सरकार, कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम से परामर्श करने के पश्चात, 

establishment connected with a railway company, a major 
उपरिवर्णित कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के सभी उपबन्धों 

port, a mine or an oilfield or a controlled industry or in 
से , 14 जनवरी, 1973 से 13 जनवरी, 1974 तक जिसमें यह दिन 

Telation to an establishment having departments or branches 
भी सम्मिलित है", एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एस द्वारा in more than one State . 
छुट देती है । 

____ [ No . A - 12016( 16 ) / 73- PF.I( i )] 
[ एस . 38017 ( 11) / 72 -एच . आई । 

नई दिल्ली , 26 अप्रैल , 1973 
___ New Delhi, the 23rd April , 1973 

का . आ . 1303. - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 

का 34 ) की धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
S. O . 1301.--- Whereas the Central Government is satisfied 

हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार हिन्दस्तान एरोनाटिक्स लिमिटेड, नाशिक 
that the employees of the Small Industrics Service Institutes, 

डिविजन , नासिक नामक कारखाने की ऐसे क्षेत्र में, जिसम् उक्त 
Industrial Estate , Okhla , New Delhi, belonging to the Central 
Government in the Ministry of Industrial Development are 

अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबंध प्रवृत्त नहीं है , अष 
otherwise in receipt of benefits substantially similar to the स्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्स अधिनि 
bonofits provided under the Employees State Insurance Act , राम के अध्याय 5- क के अधीन उग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष 
1948 (34 of 1948 ) . 

अभिवाथ के संदाय से , इस अधिसूचना के भारत के राजपत्र में , 
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 

प्रकाशन की तारीख से क वर्ष की अवधि के लिए या तब तक के 
section 90 of the said Act and in continuation of the noti 

लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबंध उन 
fication of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 

क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जात , जो भी पहले हो , एसद्वारा छ,र देती 
Labour and Employment and Rchabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment ) No. S. O . 2492 dated the 24th 
June, 1972, the Central Government , after consultation with 

[ फा . सं . 602 ( 20 ) / 70 - एव . आई ] 
tho Employees State Tosurance Corporation , hereby exempts 

New Delhi, the 26th April , 1973 
the above mentioned factory from all the provisions of the S . O . 1303. --In exercise of the powers conferred by 
said Act for a further period of one year with effect from 

section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 
the 14th January , 1973 upto and inclusive of the 13th 

( 34 of 1948), the Central Government having regard to the 
January , 1974 . 

location of the factory, known as Hindustan Aeronautics 
No. S -38017 ( 11 ) / 72 - HI ] Limited , Nasik Division, Nasik , in an area in which the 

provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not 
नई दिल्ली, 25 अप्रैल , 1973 

in force hereby exempts the said factory from the payment 
का . आ . 1:202 . - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कदम्ब पेंशन 

of the omployer s special contribution leviable under Chapter 

VA of the said Act for a period of one year with effect 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 (1952 का 19) की धारा 13 को उप 

from the date of publication of this notification in the 
धारा (1 प्यारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए भारत सरकार 

Gazette of India or until the enforcement of the provisions 
के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोज of Chapter V of the said Act in that area, whichever is 
गार विभाग ) की अधिसचना सं का . आ . 2548 तारीख 21 बलाई , earlier . 
1987 को अधिकान्स करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री एस . पी . महरोत्रा 
को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके अधीन विचित 

___ [ File No. 602(20) /70- 11 ] 
कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम और कर्मचारी कदम्ब पैशन स्कीम 

नई दिल्ली , 27 अप्रैल , 1973 
के प्रयोजना के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन किसी 
स्थापन के संबंध में या किसी रेल कम्पनी , महापत्तन खान या तेल 

का . आ . 2304 . कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और क ,टम्ब पैंशन 
क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से संबंधित किसी स्थापन के संबंध या 

निधि अधिनियम , 1952 (1952 का 19) की धारा 13 की उपधाग 
ऐसे स्थापन के संबंध में जिसके एक से अधिक राज्य में विभाग 

(1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्सियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार 
या शाखाएं हों , सम्पूर्ण दिल्ली संघ राज्य क्षेत्र के लिए निरीक्षक 

के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
नियुक्स करती है । 

विभाग ) की सीधसूचना सं . का . आ . 3012, सारीख 29 अगस्त , 

1988 और श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
[ सं . ए-12018 ( 16) / 73- भ . नि . 1 ( 2) 7 की अधिसूचना सं . 103 सारीख 10 जनवरी , 1973 को , अधिफ्रान्स 


June, hour and Emoyment and " 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1769 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


pal as a meates Shri sulation with 


करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, श्री डी . एस . ठकराल को उक्त अधिनियम 

और उसके अधीन विचित कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम और 
फटम्ब पेंशन स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या 
उसके नियंत्रणाधीन किसी स्थापन के संबंध में या किसी रेल 
कम्पनी, महापत्तन , खान या सेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से 
संबंधित किसी स्थापन के संबंध में या किसी ऐसे स्थापन के संबंध 
में जिसके एक से अधिक राज्यों में विभाग या शाखाएं हों , सम्पूर्ण 
असम , मणीपुर , त्रिपुरा , नागालैंड और मेघालय के राज्यों तथा 
मिजोरम और अरूणाचल प्रदेश के संघ राज्यक्षेत्रों के लिए निरीक्षक 
नियुक्स करती है । 

[ सं . 33 ( 2) / 88 -पी. एफ -1 (2) ] 

दलजीत सिंह, अवर सचिव 
New Delhi , the 27th April , 1973 
$ . 0 . 1304 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -section (i) of section 13 of the Employees Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 1952 ) 
ond in superyession of the notifications of the Governinent 
of India , in the late Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No. 
S . O . 3012 dated the 29th August, 1968 and in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S. O . 193 dated the 10th January , 1973 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri D . S . Thukral 
to be un Inspector for the whole of the States of Assain , 
Manipur, Tripura , Nagaland and Meghalaya and the Union 
Ierritories of Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh for the pur 
poses of the said Act, and the Employees Provident Fund 
Scheme and the Family Pension Scheme framed thorounder, 
in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the 
control of the Central Government, or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company, a major 
port, a mine or an oil -field or a controlled industry or in 
relation to an establishment having dopartments or branches 
in more than one State. 

[ No . 33(2 ) / 68-PF-I( ii )] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 27th April, 1973 
S. O . 1305 .--- In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 3 of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition ) 
Act , 1970 ( 37 of 1970), read with clause ( d) of rule 3 of 
the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition ) Central Rules , 
1971, the Central Government, after consultation with the 
Railway Board , hereby nominates Shri S. C. Samant vice 
Shri V . C . Rajagopal as a member of the Central Advisory 
Contract Labour Board and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment ) No . S. O . 5207 , dated the 30th 
October , 1971 , namely : 

In the said notification for serial No. 5 and the entry 
relating thereto , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" 5. Shri S. C. Samant, Director , Traffic ( Commerciat ), 
Ministry of Railways, (Railway Board ), New Delhi, 

Representing the Railways ". 

[ File No. S-16025 / 66 / 72- LWI-1] 
LALFAK ZUALA, Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली, 21 अप्रैल, 1973 
का . आ . 1218. न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 (1048 
का 11) की धारा 9 के साथ पठित उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 
8 और न्यूनतम मजदुरी (केन्द्रीय सलाहकार बोर्ड ) नियम , 1949 
के नियम 3 द्घारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय 
सरकार, भारत सरकार के श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय (श्रम और 
रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं का . आ . 2373, तारीख 19 जून , 
1972 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात : 

उक्त अधिसूचना में स्वतंत्र सदस्य शीर्षक के नीचे , मद 1 
के सामने की प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि रखी 
जायेगी, अर्थात् : 
"1, श्री जी . वेन्कटस्वामी, अध्यक्ष, उप श्रम मंत्री, श्रम और 

पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) नई दिल्ली । " 


नई दिल्ली , 27 अप्रैल , 1973 
का . आ . 1305. संविदा श्रम (विनियम और उत्पावन ) केन्द्रीय 
नियम , 1971 के नियम 3 के खण्ड ( घ ) के साथ पठित संविदा श्रम 
(विनियमन और उत्सादन ) अधिनियम , 1970 (1970 का 37 ) की 
धारा 3 वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
रेलवे बोर्ड से परामर्श करने के पश्चात् एतद्वारा श्री वी . सी . राजगोपाल 
के स्थान पर श्री एस . सी . सामन्त को केन्द्रीय सलाहकार संविदा श्रम 
बोर्ड का सदस्य नामोनिशिस करती है और भारत सरकार के श्रम 

और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
संख्या 5202 तारीख 30 अक्तूबर, 1971 में निम्नलिखित और 
संशोधन करती है । 
अर्थात् : 
उक्त अधिसूचना में क्रम संख्या 5 तथा तत्संबंधी प्रविष्टि 

के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रतिस्थापित किया जामा, 
अर्थात् : 
" 5. श्री . एस . सी . सामान्त , निशक, ट्राफिक ( पाणिज्यिक) , 
रेल मंत्रालय , (रेलवे बोर्ड ), नई दिल्ली । 

रेलवज का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले " 
[ फा . सं . 18025 ( 88) / 72- एल . एल्यू . आई.17 

लालफक जआला, अवर सचिव 


अध्यक्ष 
[ सं. एस. 32023(2)/ 72-डब्ल्यू ई. (एम. डब्ल्यू .) ] 

हंस राज छाबड़ा, अवर सचिष 
New Delhi, the 21st April , 1973 
S . O . 1306 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sec . 
tion 8 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948) , 
read with section 9 of the said Act and rule 3 of the Mini . 
mum Wages ( Central Advisory Board ) Rules, 1949 , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amend 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment ) No . S. O . 2373 , dated the 19th 
June , 1972, namely : -- 
In the said notification , under the heading " Independent 

on the said notification under the 
Persons " for the entries against item 1, the following entries 
shall be substituted, namely : -- 
" 1. Shri G . Venkat Swamy , Deputy Labour Minister , 

Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment), New Delhi. 

Chairman " . 
[ No. S- 32023 (2 ) / 72- WE( MW) ] 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy, 


1770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


. . 


- ...- - : - . - . - 


. - - - 


आपरा 


cadre and ( iii ) the C cadre , for the purposes of 
regulating transfer , posting , appointment or promo 
tion to vacancies in the integrated cadre to be made 
after the award is given ? " 


[ No . L - 31011 / 5 / 72 - P & D ] 


आदेश 


नई दिल्ली, 24 अप्रैल , 1973 
का , आ . 1307. - यत केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनसी में तिनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में बम्बई स्तन 
न्यास , बम्बई के प्रबन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्म 
कारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विषाद विद्यमान है , 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यार्यानर्णयन के 
लिए निशिप्त करना चांछनीय समझती है । 

अतः, अब, औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा (1) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्सियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्धारा उक्त 
विवाद को उदन अधिनियम की धारा क के अधीन गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार आयोगिक अधिकरण , बम्बई को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या यह मांग कि पत्तन विभाग फ्लोटिल्ला में इंजिन 

कक्ष की दलों के ख और ग काहरों का एक ही काडर 
के रूप में एकीकरण किया जाना चाहिए, न्यायोचित है ? 
यदि हां , तो पंचाट दे दिये जाने के बाद बनाए जाने वाले 
एकीकृत कार में रिक्तियों पर स्थानान्तरण तैनाती, 
निपक्सि था प्रोन्नति के प्रयोजनों के लिए (1) क 
काहर में के और अपेक्षित डीजल प्रमाण-पत्र रखने पाल 
( 2 ) ख काडर और (3) ग काडर में के इंजन-कक्ष 
कीदलों की परस्पर ज्येष्ठता क्या होनी चाहिये? " 

[संख्या एल: 31011/5/ 12-पो. एण्डही.] 


का . आ . 1308. - यत . केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इस से 
उपापद्य अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में बम्बई पत्तन 

न्यास , मुम्बई के प्रबंधतंत्र से संबद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्म 
__ कारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्गार्यानर्णयन के 
लिएनिशप्त करना वांछनीय समझती है , 

अतः, अन , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 
14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा (1) के खण्ड (घ ) द्वारा प्रस्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-फ के अर्धान गठित 
केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक अधिकरण, मुम्बई को न्यायनिर्णयन 
के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 

अमसूची 
1. इस तथ्य को ध्यान में रखते हुए कि चयन ज्येष्ठता एवं 

उपयुक्तता के आधार पर किया जाना है , क्या मुम्बई 
पत्तन न्यास के प्रबंधतंत्र द्वारा मोबाइल क्रेन पर्यवेक्षक 
( आपरेटिव ) के पदों के लिए किया गया चयन अज, और 
उचित था ? 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th April , 1973 
S. O . 1307. -- Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an Industrial Dispute exists between the emp 
loyers in relation to the management of Bombay Port Trust, 
Bombay and their workmen in respoct of the matters speci 
fied in the Schedule hereto annexod ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desir 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , thereforc, in cxercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( d ) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act. 


2. क्या यह दावा सही है कि मोबाइल केन हाइवर, श्रेणी 2 के पाँ 

को मोबाइल केन पर्यवेक्षक ( आपरौटय ) के पदों में 
संपरिवर्तित कर दिए जाने के कारण मजदूरों को उप 
लभ्य प्रोन्नति सम्बन्धी अवसर कम हो गए हैं , अतः 
औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 की धारा 9 क के 
अधीन परिवर्तन की सूचना दिए बिना इस संपरिवर्तन 
का प्रभाषी होना अवैध था ? 

[ सं . एल .-37011/ 1/ 73- पी . एण्ड डी .] 

वी . शंकलिंगम , अवर सचिव 


ORDER 


SCHEDULE 
“ Whether the demand that the B and C cadros of tho 

enging room crews of the Port Department flotilla 
should be integrated into a single cadre is justifled ? 
If so , what should be the inter- se seniority of the 
engine room crews borne on ( i) the A cadre and 
possessing the requisite diesel certificate , ( ii ) the B 


S .O . 1308 . — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an Industrial Dispute exists between the çmp 
loyers in relation to the management of Bombay Port Trust, 
Bombay and their workmen in respect of the matters speci 
fied in the Schedule hercto annexed ; 


And , wherens , the Central Government considers it desir 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 


1771 


- - - - - 


- -- - - - - 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


- -- . .. - - - - 


- - - 


- 


अनुसूची 


Now , therefore , in exorcise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( d ) of sub - 9cction ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal , Bombay , constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act, 


___ स्थापन 


स्थापन 


नियोजक/नियोजको 
का नाम और पत्ता 


SCHEDULE 


मैसर्स पारासकोल क . लि . 
पारसकोल कोलरी 
पोस्ट आफिस, कांजोराग्राम 
(बर्दवान ) 


[ सं . पी . ए. 18 ( 26/ 72 एल . एस . 1 ] 


Ofice of the Chlef Labour Commissioper (Central) 


1. Having rogard to the fact that the sclection has to be 

made on the basis of seniority - cum-suitability , 
whether the manner in which selection was made 
by the Bombay Port Trust management to the 
posts of Mobile Cranc Supervisor (Operative ) was 

fair and proper ? 
2 . Whether the claim that the conversion of posts of 

Mobile Crane Driver, Grade II into those of 
Mobile Crane Supervisor (Operative ) had curtailed 
the promotional opportunities available to Maz 
doors and, therefore , it was illegal to have effect 
oil the conversion without issuing a notice of change 
under soction 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, is correct ? 


ORDER 


[ No. L-31011 / 1 / 73- P & D ] 


V . SANKARALINGAM , Under Secy . 


मन्य श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय) का कार्यालय 


New Delhi, the 17th April, 1973 
9. 0 . 1309.--- Whereas an application has been made under 
section 19( b ) of the Payment of Bonus Act , 1965 by Messry 
Parascolc Coal Company Ltd . (employer ) in relation to 
their establishments mentioned in the Schedule below for 
extension of the period for the payment of bonus to their 
employees for the accounting year ending on 31 - 12 - 1971, 

And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient reasons 
to extend the time I havo , in excrcise of the powers con 
ferred on me by the proviso to clause (b ) of Section 19 
of the said Act, read with the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. WB . 20( 42 )/ 65 dated the 28th August , 1965, passed 
order on 27- 10 - 1972 extending the period for payment of 
the said bonus by the said employer by four months (ie. 
up to 31 -12-1972) from the last date for payment of bonus 
under clause ( b ) of Section 19 of the Act . 

Now this is published for information of the omployer 
and all the omployees of the said establishment. 


ith the notificate (6) of Section con 


आदरा 


नई दिल्ली, 17 अप्रैल, 1979 


का . आ . 1389. - यत: मेसर्स पारास कोल के लि . (नियोजक 
ने नीचे की अनुसूची में वर्णित अपने स्था 
31-12-1971 को समाप्त होने वाले लेखा वर्ष के लिए अपने कर्म 
चारियों को मानस के संदाय की कालावधि को बढ़ाने के लिए बोनस 
संदाय अधिनियम 1905 की धारा 19 ( ख ) के अधीन आवेदन दिया 


SCHEDULE 


Establishment( s ) 


Name and address of 

the employer (s) 
M / s. Porascole Coal Co . Ltd., 
Porascole Colliery , 
P. O . Kajoragran, 
( Burdwan ) E. Rly. 


[ No. BA. 16( 25) / 72 - LS. J ] 


और यतः यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि समय बढ़ाने के लिए 
पर्याप्त कारण है , मैंने भारत सरकार के श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय 
की अधिसूचना सं . डब्ल्यू बी-20( 42 )/ 65 तारीख 28 अगस्त, 1985 
के साथ गठित उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 18 के खण्ड ( ख ) के 
परन्तक वारा मुझे प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 27 -10- 1972 
को उक्त नियनिक द्वारा उक्त बोनस के संवाथ की कालावधि को 
अधिनियम की धारा 19 के खण्ड ( ख ) के अधीन बोनस के संसाय 
की अंतिम तारीख से 4 महीने ( अर्थात 31-12-1971 तक ) बढाने का 
आदेश दे दिया है । 


आपरा 


नई दिल्ली, 23 अप्रैल, 1973 


अब इसे उक्त स्थापन के नियोजक और सभी कर्मचारियों की 
सूचना के लिए प्रकाशित किया जाता है । 


का . आ . 1310. यतः मैसर्स टिम्बला प्रा . लि . (नियोजक ) ने 
नीचे की अनुसूची में वर्णित अपने स्थापना के संबंध में 31-3-72 
को समाप्त होने वाले लेखा वर्ष के लिए अपने कर्मचारियों को बोनस 


1772 THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973 / VAISAKHA 15 , 1895 [ PART II .. Sec . 3 (ii )] 
- - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - --- - -- - - --- - ----- - -- - - -- - -- -- -- - - - - - - --- - 
के संदाय की कालावधि को बढ़ाने के लिए बोनस संदाय अधि Timblo Private Ltd., (cmployer ) in 1elation to their citablish 
नियम , 1965 की धारा 19 ( ख ) के अधीन आवेदन विधा है । 

menis mentioned in the Schedule below for extension of the 

period for the payment of bonus to their employces for the 
__ और यसः यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि समय बढ़ाने के लिए Accouoting year ending on 31- 3 - 1972 . 
बोनस के संधाय की अंतिम तारीख से 4 महीने ( अर्थात 31-3-73 

And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient reasons 
की अधिसूचना सं . डब्ल्यू बी .-20(42) / 85 तारीख 28 अगस्त, 1965 to extend the time I have , in exercise of the powers conferred 
के साथ पठित उक्त अधिर्धानयम की धारा 19 के खण्ड ( ख ) के 

on me by the proviso to clause (b ) of Section 19 of the 

suid Act read with the notification of the Government of 
परन्तक द्वारा मुझे प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 

India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. WB, 20 
5-4-73 को उक्त नियोजक दवारा उक्त बोनस के संदाय की ( 42 )/ 65 dated the 28th August , 1965 , passed order on 5- 4- 1973 

extending the period for payment of the said bonus by the 
कालावधि को अधिनियम की धारा 19 के खण्ड ( ख ) के अधीन 

said employer by 4 months (i.c up to 31 - 3 - 1973 ) from the last 
मानस के संदाय की अंतिम तारीख से 4 महीने ( अर्थात 31- 3-73 

date for payment of bonus under clause (b ) of Section 19 of 
तक ) बढ़ाने का आवंश दे दिया है । 

the Act. 
___ अब इस उषत स्थापन के निर्याजक और सभी कर्मचारियों की 

Now this is published for information of the employer and 
सूचना के लिए प्रकाशित किया जाता है । 

all the employees of the waid establishment. 
अनुसूची 
नियोजक /नियोजकों का नाम और पता 

SCHEDULE 

स्थापन 
मैसर्स टिम्बला प्रा . लि . 

डिगनेम ,कौडली,पाल , 

Name and address of the employer(s) Establishment(s) 
मारगांआ , (गांआ ) 

सालीगनीम , वरलेम 
माइन्स और गुरचारम M / 9. Timblo Private Ltd., 
आफिस , 

Margao . 
[ सं बी . ए. 18( 50) / 72 एल. एस , 1] 

Dignum , Codli, Pale, Salginim , 
रा. जे . टी . टीमला, मुख्य श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) 

Verlam Mines & Gurchoren Olice. 
ORDER 
New Delhi, the 23rd April , 1973 

[ No . BA. 16( 50) / 72-LS.I] 
S. 0 . 1310. - - Whereas an application has been made under 
Section 19 ( b) of the Payment of Bonus Act , 1965 , by Messrs . 

R , J. T . D Mello, Chief Labour Commissioner ( Central ) 


- - - 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER GOVT . OF INDIA PRESS , RING ROAD , NEW DELHI, 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DEL111- 6 , 1973 


