foret do to 222 


REGISTERED No . D . 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


srfmi afsta 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


0 51) 
No sI ) 


faxat, offrant, fantai 23, 1967/ 12, 1889 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , DECEMBER 23 , 1967/PAUSA 2, 5869 


इस भाग में भिन्न पष्ठ संख्या की जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 


Separato paglag is given to this part in order that it may be iled 

as a separate compilation . 


Affort line 3 - yumor # 2! 

PART 1 _ Section 3 Sub -seca ( ü ) 
( •क्षामंच को छोड़कर भारत सरकार के मंत्राीर ( क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

द्रीय प्राधिक पाजाम किए गए विधिक प्राधा प्रार अधिरचनाएं । 


Staszu ory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence) ond by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Idion Territories ) 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDLA 

New Delhi, the 13th November 1967 
S . O . 4404 . - In pursuance oť section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act , 1901, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on 
the 23rd October , 1967, by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh , Indore Bench , 
Indore , in Election Petition No. 43 of 1967. 

HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH , INDORE 

ELELC TION PETITION CASE NO. 43 OF 1967 
Applicant 

Opposite party 
Suriya Prusad s / o Hariram Vs. 

Atamdas s / o Jiwan Das 
R / O 91, Khedapati Colony. Gwalior 

Jalur R / O Hem Singh Ki-Parade , 

Lashkar. 
Application for u / s 30A read with section 100 of the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951, by the peiitioner calling in question the election of Shri Atam 
das, a returned candidale from thc Morena Reserved Lok Sabha Constituency 
No. 1 of the State of Madhya Pradesh . 


( 4685 ) 


4686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


. [ PART II 


Petition presented by Shri Suriya Prasad on 10th April, 1967. 

The application coming on for Anal hearing on 28th September , 1967 , before 
the Honourable Shri Justice M . A . Razzaque and the Honourable Shri Justice * * 
in the presence of Shri G . L . Ozha Counsel for the applicant, and of Shri A . P . 
Mishra with Shri K L Goyal Counsel for the opposite party , the following order 
was passed by the Court : 


ELECTION PETITION No. 43 OF 1967 


Suriya Prasad 


12 . 


Atamdas 


ORDER 
By this election petition preferred under section 80A read with section 100 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, aş duly amended uptodate (here 
Inatter called the Act) by the petitioner Shri Suriyaprasad of Gwalior, e defeated 
Congress - candidate , the election of the respondent Shri Atamdas of Lashkar, 
Gwalior , a successful independent candidate from the Morena Reserved Lok 
Sabha Constituency No. 1 of the State of Madhya Pradesh , has been challenged . 
The respondent was declared elected on 23rd February , 1967 from the said 
constituency and the main question involved in the case is whether on the date 
of his election , the respondent was not qualified or was disqualifled to be chosen 
to fill the said scat under section SA read with section 7 (b ) of the Act because 
of a Government contract said to be subsisting between him and the Central 
Government on the date of his election . 

2 . The admitted tacts are that the petitioner and the respondent along with 
five others ( and who have not been impleaded as co - respondents in this petition 
because the only prayer is to declare the respondent s election to be void ) were 
the contesting candidates from the Morena Reserved Lok Sabha Constituency 
No. 1 of the State of Madhya Pradesh . During the course of the argument, it 
was admitted by both the parties that the last date for filing the nomination 
paper was 19th January , 1967. The respondent secured 1, 18 , 167 votes and next 
to him the petitioner received about 38 ,000 votes and accordingly , the Return 
ing Officer announced the result on 23rd February, 1967, at Morena declaring 
the respondent as returned candidate . 

3 . The further adınitted facts are that the respondent, in the course of his 
trade or business entered into a contract on 25th February , 1954 for the " repair 
ing work of Ratnawali Burj Raisen Fort" , with the Department of Archaeology , 
Government of India at Bhopal. The contract was for Rs. 37 ,012 and the work 
was to be executed and completed within three months from 25th February , 
1954, vide (Ex . P . 2 ) , ( P . 4 - A ) anil ( P . 4 - B ) . This contract was the subject inut 
ter of the previous election petition No . 433 of 1957 and in that petition . The 
present petitioner as well as the respondent along with others were parties . 
That petition was decided by the Election Tribunal, Gwalior on 27th October , 
1958 and the Tribunal there had held that on the date of the scrutiny of the 
nomination papers in the 1957 - election , the contract was subsisting between the 
respondent and the Government of India and , therefore, the respondent Suttered 
from the disqua ified vide Ex. P . 11 . The matter went up in appcal before 
the High Court of Madhya Pradesh as First Appeal No. 133 of 1958, decided on 
13th July , 1959 and in that appeal, the above finding of the Tribunal was con 
firmed and it was also held that there was improper acceptance of the nomina 
tion paper of the respondent. 

4 . The petitioner s case is that even now there still subsists the said contract, 
namely , " repairing work of Ratanwali Burj Raison Fort " cutered into by the 
respondent on 25th February , 1954, with the Central Government for the . execu 
tion of the said work and therefore, he suffered from the said disqualification 
under section 9A of the Act and hence he was not fit to be chosen to All the 
parliamentary seat from the Constituency in question . It is further alleged 
that the findings of the Election Tribunal in the previous election petition 
No. 433 of 1957 decided on 27th October , 1958 , to the effect that there was such 
a subsisting contract; that the respondent suffered from the disqualification and 
that there was improper acceptance of the nomination paper of the respondent 
and confirmed by the High Court in First Appeal No. 133 of 1958 , operate as 
Nos judicata against the respondent in this case . It was also alleged that the 
respondent s nomination paper was improperly accepted and the result of the 
election , in so far as , it concerns the returned candidate has been materially 
affected by such improper acceptance . Accordingly it was prayed that the elec 
tion of the returned candidate ie., respondent should be declared to be void 
under section 100 of the Act. 


SEC, 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4687 


VW 


4 


5 . The respondent denied that the said contract between him and the Central 
Government subsisted either on the date of the scrutiny of the nomination paper 
or the date of his election or that it subsists at present. Accordingly , he denied 
that he suffered any disqualification under section 9A of the Act or that he was 
not fit to be chosen to fill the said parliamentary seat. He also denied that 
the findings of the Election Tribunal in the previous election petition and confirmed 
by the High Court in appeal in connection with 1957 - election operate as res 
judicata in 1967 - election i. e ., the election in question . He has further denied 
that his nomination paper was improperly accepted or that the same has materially 
affected the result of the election . He assailed the petition as barred by time. 
Accordingly , he prayed that the election petition be dismissed . 

6 . On these pleadings of the parties, the following issues were framed and 
my findings thereon are as under : 


Issues 


Findings 


Yes . 


Ye . 


Not qualified 


Yes. 


( 1 )( a ) Whether there still subsists a contract (repairing work of Rat 

nawali Burj Fort), entered into by the respondent on 25 - 2 - 1954 
in the course of his trade and business with the Central Go 
vernment for the execution of works undertaken by that Go 

vernment as alleged by the petitioner ? 
b ) Whether on this account he suffers disqualification under sec 

tion 9A of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 and 
whether , therefore, he was not qualified on the date of the 
scrutiny of the nomination papers for being chosen to fill the 

Parliamentary seat in question as alleged by the petitioner ? 
( c ) Whether the respondent s nomination paper was improperly 

accepted as alleged ? 
(d ) Whether the result of the election in so far as it concerns the 

returned candidate respondent) has been materially affected 

by the improper acceptance of the nomination paper as alleged ? 
* 2 ) Whether the findings of the Election Tribunal in Election Petition 

No. 433 of 1957 decided on 27 - 10 - 1958 in connection with the 
1957 election to the effect that there was such a contract : that 
the respondent suffered from the disqualification and that there 
was improper acceptance of the nomination paper of the res 
pondent and confirmed by the High Court in First Appeal No . 
133 of 1958 decided on 13 - 7 - 1959 operate as res judicata in 

this case relatting to 1967 - election as alleged by the petitioner ? 
( 3) Whether the petition is barred by time as alleged by the res 

pondent ? 
(4 ) Should the election of the respondent be declared to be void ? 
( 5 ) Relief ? 


Election void . 


No. 


Yes . 


Petition allowed 
and election 
declared void . 


Reasons for the findings 


7 . Issues 1 ( a ) and ( b ) . These are the main important issues in this case . 
The petitioner s case is that the Government contract dated 25th February , 1954 
entered into by the respondent with the Central Government for the repairing work 
of the " Ratnawali Bur ) , Kaiser Füri still subsisted on the date of this election 
petition and , therefore, the respondent vas disqualified under section 9A of the 
Act for being chosen as a member of the Lok Sabha from the constituency in 
question . Disqualified as defined in section 7 ( b ) of this Act means disqualified 
for being chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State . Section 9 - A says that 
a person shall be disqualified if , and for so long as, there subsists a contract en 
tered into by him in the course of his trade or business with the appropriate 
Government for the supply of goods to , or for the execution of any works under 
taken by , that Government. Section 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act provides that subject 
to the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) , if the High Court is of the opinion that on 
the date of his election a returned candidate was not qualified , or was disqualified , 


4688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


(Part II 


to be chosen to fill the seat under the Constitution or this Act or the Government 
in the presence of Shri... . . . .. Counsel for the applicant, and of Shri R . K . 
Vijayavargiya Counsel for the opposite party , the following order was passed by 
the Court : - 

8 . It is not disputed that the respondent was in approved contractor at the 
relevant time, i.e ., 1954 being on the approyed list of contractors maintained by the 
Government and that the contract in question was entered into by him in the 
course of his trade or business . There is also no dispute that the Central Gov 
ernment in the Archaeological Department was responsible for the execution of 
the repairing works in question undertaken by it and , threfore , it was the appro 
priate Government. This Government has its Central Circle at Bhopal and the 
Raisen Fort of which the repairs in question were to be carried out is situated 
in the territory of the erstwhile State of Bhopal. There is also no dispute about 
the proper form in which the contract in question was entered . Thus the parties 
are agreed on the two important conditions of Section 9 - A of the Act, namely , 
that the respondent entered into the contract in question in the course of his 
trade or business with the appropriate Government for the repairing works in 
question undertaken by that Government. So the only question that now arises 
for our consideration is whether this contract subsisted on 23rd February , 1967 
when the respondent was declared elected to the Parliamentary seat from the 
Morena Reserved Lok Sabha Constituency No . 1. 

9 . In his case parties have examined one witness each and filed certain 
doçunients froni the Government filc relating to the repairing work of the 
" Ratnawali Burj,, Raisen Fort" i.e . the contract in question , in support of their 
respective cases. The petitioner s witness Shri K . M . Shrivastava ( P . W . 1 ) is the 
Deputy Superintendent Archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India , Central 
Circle , Bhopal and he appeared with the files relating to the contract in question . 
He has been posted as Deputy Superintendent Archaeologist at Bhopal since 
1st March , 1966 . His evidence with reference to the documents from the Gov 
ernment Ales referred to above, shows that the contract in question entered into 
on 25th January , 1954 for Rs. 37 , 012 which was to be completed by the respondent 
within three months i.e ., by 25th May , 1954 (as per Ex . P . 2 and P . 11 will not 
completed upto 27th August, 1959 ( vide Ex . D . 3 ) . A specific question was put 
to him in the examination - in - chief whether he was in a position to state if the 
contract in question was fully completed by the respondent or not and his reply 
was that he was not posted at Bhopal at the relevant time but with retercnce 
to the Department s letter dated 20th June, 1957 ( Ex . P . 5 ), he could say that till 
20th June, 1957, the respondent had not completed the work and that whatever 
work he had executed was defective . A memorandum dated 7th April, 1959 
(Ex . P . 6 ) was issued from the office of the Superintendent and it shows that 
the respondent had deposited Rs. 1850 as security with the Government against 
the contract in question and the witness has deposed that so far the said security 
has not been released . From the running bills in the files relating to the contract 
In question , the witness stated that the Department paid Rs. 27 ,656 - 9 upto 31st 
March , 1956 to the respondent for the part of the work executed by him . 

10 . In cross - examination , the witness was confronted with the letter ( Ex . D . 1 ) 
dated 23rd July , 1958 issued from the office of the Director -General of Archaeology , 
New Delhi and he deposed that from the Ales he could say that the respondent 
did not seem to have executed the remaining part of the work in question after 
this letter ( Ex . D . 1 ) . He further deposed that the Ales brought by him do rot 
show that any of the items given in the specificaticin of the work (EX . P . 4 - B ) to 
be carried out have remained incomplete except what has been stated in the 
letter dated 20th June , 1957 ( Ex . P . 5 ) . Further on he was confronted in cross 
examination by Ex . D . 3 , dated 27th August . 1959. This is a reply hy the respondent 
to the Department s letter dated 11th August, 1959 . In this letter , the respondent hos 
clearly stated that " I want with all sincerity to finish the said work as early 
as possible . . . . Thus, it would be clear from this letter of the respondent that 
the contract in question had remained incomplete atleast till 27th August, 1959 
and the respondent was keen to finish it as early as possible provident certai 
facilities were given to him by the Government. 

11 . As against this evidence , the respondent Shri Alamdas ( R . W . 1 ) dias deposed 
that he had fully and completely exccuted the contract in question relating to 
the repairing work of the " Ratnawali Burj, Ralsen Fort" in December , 1956 and 
thus he nieans to say that the said contract was not subsisting after 1956 . He 
has further deposed that his name was struck off from the list of approved con 
tractors in 1957 and since then , he did not take any contract either from the 
Government of India or from any Government Department till today for the 
execution of any work . In connection with the previous election petition , he 


BC, 3( ti )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 25, 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 18894689 


was examined as a witness on 13th November , 1957 and his deposition recorded 
in that case is Ex . P . 10. The portion marked A to A in Ex . P . 10 is to the effect 
that the repairing of the “ Ratnawall Burj” was not completed till then by him and 
that full payment was also not made to him . When he was confronted with his 
statement, he admitted having made it but he tried to explain it by saying that 
in addition to the contractual work in question , he had executed other extra work 
and it was this extra work which had remained incomplete and , therefore , he said 
statement related to the non - completion of the extra work . It is true that the 
respondent had executed some extra work in addition to the contract in question 
during the year 1956 - 57 as would be clear from the Department s letter (Ex . P . 5 ) 
dated 20th June, 1957 and also admitted by Shri K . M . Shrivastava ( P . W . 1 ) but it is 
absolutely wrong to say that the portion marked A c A in Ex . P . 10 relates to the 
non -completion of the extra work . It is abundantly clear from this very portion 
that this admission relates to the non -completion of the contract in question , namely , 
the repairing work of the Ratnawali Bur ; For Raisen . Thus his own admission 
would establish that he had not completed the contract in quesion at least up to 
13th November , 1957 when he was examined in the previous election petition . 


12 . He has also adınitted before me that for the work which was executed 
by him in connecticn with the contract in question , he received the payment of 
about Rs. . . . . . . . . from the Department. This would also - establish that he had 
not fully executed and completed the contract in question because the said contract 
was for Rs. 37 ,012 . Again he has admitted his application dated 27th August , 
1959 (Ext. D . 3 ) which relates to the contract in question and as already stated , 
in that application he has clearly admitted that he was prepared to Anish the 
said work as early as possible provided certain facilities were given to him . 
Therefore, this document itsell clearly establishes that till 27th August, 1959, the 
contract in question was not completed or fully performed by the respondent 
To the questions of the Court , he further admitted that neither he nor the Gov 
ernment brought any action against each other in connection with the repairing 
work of the Ratnawali Burj in question . He went on to say that even today 
he has yet to receive about Rs. 10 , 000 or Rs. 12 ,000 from the Government in connec : 
tion with the contract in question and though he made repeated demands from 
the Government in writing , till 1957- 58 , he received no payment till today . He 
also admitted that he did not file any suit against the Government to recover the 
alleged balance , 


13 . The substance of the evidence of these two witnesses coupled with the 
documents referred to above would show that the respondent had executed only 
a part of the work in connection with the contract in question entered into in 
1954 and that the said contract remained Incomplete atleast til 27th August, 1959 . 
It is also clear that his security deposit Rs. 1. 850 against this work was not 
released by Government and that he did not receive it till today . Also he has not 
filed any completion certificate to show that the said contract was fully performed 
by him . On the basis of these facts and circumstances it can be said with defini 
teness that atleast till 27th August, 1959 the respondent did not execute the full 
work and complete the contract in question . Then the question arises whether 
he completed the remaining part of the said contract at any time betwcen 27th 
August , 1959 and the date of the filling of his nomination paper on 19th January , 
1967 or its scrutiny or the declaration of his election on 23rd February , 1967 
from the Constituency in question . Further his evidence shows that he has not 
received the balance about Rs. 10 , 000 from the Government till today in connection 
with the said contract . 


14 . On behalf of the petitioner , Shri Ojha urged that on the very admission 
of the respondent himself that full payment had not been made by the Govern 
ment till today , it must be held that the contract in question has not been fully 
discharged by performance on both sides and , therefore , the same is still subsisting 
today . In support he relied on Chaturbhui Vithaldas Jasani v . Moreshwar Parastam 
and others (AIR . 1954 S . C . 236 ) and Laliteshwar Prasad Sani v . Butashwar Prasad 
and others ( A . I. R . 1966 S . C . 583) in which the above ruling was followed . The case 
of Chaturbhui Vithuldas Jasani v . Moreshwar Parasram and others ( supra ) was 
decided under section 7 ( d ) of the Act as it originally stood. In that case. Their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court observed that " a contract for the supply of 
goods does not terminate when the goods are supplied ; it continues in being thi 
it is fully discharged by performance on both sides. It cannot be said that the 
moment a contract is fully executed on one side and all that remains is to receive 
payment from the other then the contract terminates and a new relationship of 
debtor and creditor takes its place " . This was followed in Laliteshwar Prasad Sahi 


4690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART IL 


- 


- 


V . Bateshwar Prasad and others ( supra ), which was decided under section 7 ( d ) 
of the Act as amended in 1958. In this case it was held that 

" A contract for the supply of goods or for the execution of any works or 

for the performance of any services undertaken does not cease to subsist 
only because the goods had been supplied or work had been executed 
or services performed . It continues to subsist till payment is made 

and the contract is fully discharged by performance on both sides ." 
In view of this authority , the respondent would have been at once out or Court 
if section 7 ( d ) as amended in 1958 had not undergone a further change ; and the 
change is that this section has been replaced by section 4 - A read with section 7 ( b ) 
of the Act or by the recent amendment of 1966 . In the new section 9 - A , an 
explanation has been added to make it clear that a contract with the Governinan 
shall be deemed not to subsist by reason only of the fact that the Government 
has not performed its part of the contract either wholly or in part of the contract 
has been fully performed by the person by whom it has been entered into with 
the appropriate Goverament. It is common ground that the case in question is 
governed by this new section 9 - A read with section 7 ( b ) of the Act and the 
contention of the respondent is that he has fully performed his part of the 
contract. 


vintage en el mes gene 


rale de 


sole 


15 . It would now be desirable to set out the old and the new statutory pro 
visions on the point. The unamended section 7 ( d ) as it originally stood was as 
under - 

" 7 . A person shall be disqualiAed for being chosen as, and for being , a 

member of either House of Parliament or the Legislative Asyembly or 

Legislative Council of a State . . . 
( d ) II , whether by himself or by any person or body of persons in trust 

for him or for his benefit or Onı his account, he has any share or interest 
in a contract for the supply of goods to , or for the execution of any 
works cr the performance of any services undertaken by the appropriate 

Government 
As amended in 1958 , the section read as under : 
17. A person shall be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being a 

member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 

or Legislative Council of a State . . . 
( d ) If there subsists a contract entered into in the course of his trade 

or business by him with the appropriate Government for the supply of 
goods to , or for the exccution of any works undertaken by, that Gov 

eroment" . 
As replaced in 1968 by sections 9- A and 7 (b ), these statutory provisions are 
as under 

" 9 - A . A person shall be disqualified if , and for so long as, there subsists 

a contract entered into by him in the course of his trade or business 
with the appropriata Government for the supply of goods to , or for 

the execution of any works undertaken by , that Government. 
Erplanation . For the purposes of this section , where contract has been 

fully performed by the person by whom it has been entered into with : 
the appropriate Government, the contract shall be deemed not to subsist 
by reason only of the fact that the Government has not performed its 

part of the contract either wholly or in part." 
" 7 (b ) disqualified means disqualified for being chosen as, and for being 

a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly 

or Legislative Council of a State ," 
16 . A comparison of these statutory provisions relating to disquallfication 
would clearly show that the said provisions have undergone substantial changes 
from time to time and these changes have been effected to avoid the difficulties 
to which a contracting party may be subjected. The language of section 7 (d ) 
as it originally stood which provided for the disqualiAcation in case of contracts 
with the Government was wide and probably vague enough to bring any kind 
end category of contract within its scope and the Parliament realised that it had 
been a fruitful source of election disputes in the past. The language was wide 
enough to include even the persons who only occasionally broadcast any talk 
from the Radio Station or contribute any article to any Government publication : 
and such persona may come within the mischief of that section . Accordingly .. 


SEC, 3 ( 15 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4691 


section 7 ( d ) was amended in 1958 in a simpler and more rational way so as to 
bring within its purview only two categories of contracts entered into by a person 
with the Government in the course of his trade or business and these two cate 
gories were contracts for the supply of goods and contracts for the execution of 
any works. Even this change did not solve the case of a contractor, who has fully 
performed his part of the contract and Government did not perform its part 
either wholly or in part for one reason or the other . According to tho decisions 
in the above two Supreme Court rulings, under section 7 ( d ) as criginally stood 
or amended in 1958 , the contract continued to subsist till payment was made and 
the contract was fully discharged by performance on both sides . 

17 . The Parliament probably realised that an innocent contractor, who has 
fully performed his part of the contract should not be penalised if the Government 
did not perform its part. The dispute about the settlement of payment or actual 
payment by the Government to the Contractor may continue for years logether: 
the amount involved may be even petty and in some casey payment may not be 
made or ordered till the life time of the contractors and in all these cases , the 
contractor who has fully performed his part of the contract would be disqualified 
to contest the election . There seemed no justification to penalise such an innocent 
party . Therefore, the explanation to section 9 - A of the Act was added . The 
explanation says that for the purposes of this section ( section 9 - A ) where a contract 
has been fully performed by the person by whom it had been entered into with 
the appropriate Government, the contract shall be deemed not to subsist by reason 
only of the fact that the Government has not performed its part of the contract 
either wholly or in part . The intention of the Legislature in adding this explanation 
is to avoid the rigour of the decisions in the two Supreme Court rulings relerred 
to above. In view of this explanation , the learned counsel for the petitioner 
cannot avail of the decisions in the two Supreme Court rulings simply because 
no full payment as claimed by the respondent has been made by the Government. 

18 . Even then , the respondent is nct out of the woods. In view of the facts 
and circumstances of the case , he shall have to establish that the contract in 
question has been fully performed by him , if he wants to avail of the Explanation 
to section 9 - A . Shri Mishra , learned counsel for the respondent has urged before 
me that the respondent has fully performed his part of the contract and in the 
alternative he canyassed that the same was discharged by the breach committed 
by the Government, in case it is found that the contract was not fully exeruted 
by the respondent. According to him , by Ex . D . 1 dated 23rd July 1958 , the 
Director General of Archaeology in India wrote to the Superintendent, Department 
of Archaeology , Central Circle , Bhopal that " the contractor should be told cate 
gorically that he is not to proceed with the work " . In view of this , Shri Mishra 
urged that the Government of India committed breach of the contract on 23rd 
July , 1958 and , therefore , the contract in question must be deemed to have been 
discharged on 23rd July , 1958 and hence there subsisted no contract between him 
and the Government either on the date of Aling the nomination paper i.e . 19th 
January , 1967 or its scrutiny or the declaration of the election result on 23rd 
February , 1987. These contentions were repudiated by Shri Ojha, learned counsel 
for the petitioner . 

19 . As already found, the statement of the respondent Shri Atamdas ( R . W . 1 ) 
that he duly completed and fully performed the contract in question in Decem 
ber, 1958, is utterly incorrect . It has further been found that the said contract 
was not completed by him even till 13th November , 1957 , when he was examin 
ed ag a witness in the previous election petition case and he has suffered the 
Anding in that case that the contract in question was subsisting even till 13th . 
November, 1957. This is not all. In his reply dated 27th August, 1959 , (Ex , D , 
3 ) , the respondent has clearly stated that 

" I want with all sincerity to finish the said work as early as possible . . . . . . " 
The words to finish the said work are eloquent enough to establish that even 
till 27th August , 1959, he had not fully performed the contract in question . In 
view of all this , his statement that he has to relise a balance of about Rs. 10 ,000 
from the Government of India in connection with the contract in question is not 
true for the simple reason that he has not fully performed his part of the con 
tract. The net result , therefore, is that atleast tili 27th August, 1959 , the res 
pondent had executed only part of the work in connection with the contract in 
question and that the gaid contract was not fully performed by him . 

20 . In these circumstances, it was for him to show whether after 27th August , 
1939 , he completed the remaining part of the work and if so when and in what 
manner . The respondent has not adduced any oral or documentary evinence 


4692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


nor is there any material on record to show that he completed the remaining 
part of the work in question at any time till today after 27th August , 1959. In 
fact , according to his evidence, the said contract was fully performed by him 
by December , 1956 , and this has been found to be absolutely incorrect. Further , 
his tender (Ex . P , 2 ) which was accepted on behalf of the President of India in 
connection with the contract in question shows that he " agreed to abide by and 
fulfl all the terms and provisions of the conditions contained in the pamphlet 
named General Directions and Conditions of Contract . . . . . . . . . " and it further 
shows that all these terms and conditions were either read by him or explained 
to him . This pamphlet is in the relevant file of the Government, which is be 
fore me and it bears the respondent s signature . It has been marked as X by 
me. The endorsement thereon shows that it was proved in the previous election 
petition . Among other conditions, the said pamphlet provides that the con 
tractor shall complete the work within the stipulated time and if that is not 
done, then time may be extended for such completion on reasonable grounds ; if 
the work executed is bad , imperfect or unskilful, the contractor shưll be liable 
to remove this defect and in certain cases he shall also be liable to pay com 
pensation in case of bad work ; requiring the removal of defects from such im 
perfect or unskilful work will not be considered as an admission of the due 
performance of the contract . It also provides that on completion of the work , 
the contractor shall be furnished with a final certificate . It further stipulates 
that in case of breach of any of the conditions of the contract, the Government 
will have option to adopt any of the courses mentioned therein including the 
course to rescind the contract and the security deposit of the contractor shall; 
be forfeited , In case , a final certificate has been furnished to the contractor, 
then his security deposit shall be released and refunded to him . 

21. In the present case, the respondent has not filed any final certificate in 
token of having fully performed the contract in question nor there is any evi 
dence on record to show that the certificate was furnished to the respondent till 
today . It is also on record that the security deposit of Rs, 1, 850 in connection 
with the contract in question has not been refunded to the respondent so far nor 
is there any material on record to show that Government forfeited it. Also para 
graph 2 of Ex , D . 5 , dated 20th June, 1957, from the Superintendent of the Bhopal 
Office to the Director General, New Delhi, in connection with the work in ques 
tion , shows that 
" the work which is still incomplete was inspected by the Archaeological 

Engineer during 1957, and found to be defective. In view of his 
adverse comments , further work was discontinued and the work 

is still incomplete ," . 
At the end of this document, the Superintendent also wrote that 
" the contractor on the other hand is very keen to finish the work and re 

quests for further instructions." 
We have seen above that the respondent did not complete the work in ques 
tion and remove the defects atlcast till 27th August, 1959 , and he has adduced 
no evidence to show that these defects were removed and the work was complet 
ed at any time till today after 27th August, 1959 . All these facts coupled with 
the facts that the respondent did not Ale the final certificate and non - refund of 
his security deposit clearly establish that till today the work in connection with 
the contract in question has not been completed by him . In other words , he has 
not fully performed his part of the contract till this day. Accordingly it follows 
that the contract in question was subsisting all along incJuding on the date on 
which the election result of the Constituency in question was declared . 

22 . It was , however , urged by respondent s learned counsel that the said con 
tract was discharged by rescission and came to an end on 23rd July , 1958 , when 
the Government committed the breach . The argument is that the respondent 
was keen to perform the remaining part of the contract as indicated in Ex . P . 5 
dated 20th June, 1957, in which the Bhopal Office communicated to the Delhi 
Office that " the contractor on the other hand is very keen to Anish the work and 
requests for further instructions." That after this, the Delhi Office wrote to the 
Bhopal Office on 23rd July , 1958 , as per Ex, D . 1 that 
" the contractor should be told categorically that he is not to proceed with 

the work ." . 
On the basis of these two statements , it was urged that the Government com 
mitted the breach on 23rd July , 1958 ; that the respondent accepted this breach 
and rescinded the contract and thus the contract was discharged by breach and 


Sec. (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967/ PAUSA 2. 1889 


4693 


came to an end on 23rd July , 1958 . Accordingly , it was contended that the con 
tract in question was not subsisting on any of the relevant dates in this case and 
hence the respondent did not suffer from the disqualification under section 9A 
read with section 7 ( b ) of the Act. In support, he relied on Gaurishankar Shastri 
V . Mayadhardas ( 1959 J . L . J . 10 ) . 

23. This contention , at the very outset, suffers from some serious infirmities 
and drawbacks. It is hardly needful to say that rescission must be pleaded defl 
nitely , clearly and in unequivocal terms, Repudiation by one part standing alone 
does not terminate the contract. It takes two to end it, by repudiation on the 
one side and acceptance of the repudiation on the other . The party relying on 
rescission must expressly plead the manner in which and the date on which one 
party repudiated the contract, the date and the manner when and in which such 
repudiation was communicated to the other party ; whether the other party 
accepted such repudiation and if so when and in what manner and 
It is then that, the other party is usually said to rescind the contract . 
Section 62 of the Indian Contract Act says that if the partics to the contract agree 
to substitute a new contract for it , or to rescind or alter it, the original contract 
need not be performed. This is not all. The rescission of the contract has to be 
communicated and this should be done in the manner as provided by section 66 
of the Indian Contract Act . When all these conditions and essentials are com 
plied with then the original contract comes to an end . The same conclusion 
would flow from Gaurishankar s case ( supra ) relied on by the learned counsel 
Ior the respondent where in paragraph 9 of the said authority, their Lordships 
observed as under : 
" A contract is discharged in various ways . One of such ways is the 

discharge of the contract by performance. One other way in which 
the contract is discharged is by hreach by one of the parties and the 
rescission of the contract on accepting the breach by the other . That 
there are claims arising from or under the contract does not show that 

the contract itself is subsisting." 
24 . Almost the same thing has been stated at page 160 of Halsbury s Laws of 
England Third edition , Volume 8 , where the methods of discharge of contracts 
have been discussed in paragraph 274 . It is as under :- - 
" 274 . Four principal methods. There are four modes in which a contract 

may be discharged : ( 1 ) by agreement; ( 2 ) by performance, where 
all that the promisor undertook to do has been performed ; ( 3 ) in 
certain cases where the promisor ; ( 4 ) by breach , where the promisor 
has failed to perform his promise and the other party elects to treat 
the contract at an end . In addition a contract may be extinguished 

by statute ." 
Here in this case , the respondent s counsel relies on method No, 4 urging that 
the original contract had been discharged by rescission of the contract on acccpt 
ing the breach . 


25 . In the present case, the respondent has not at all pleaded rescission in his 
written statement nor has he given any of the particulars of such a rescission on 
which now his counsel wants to rely . As already stated , the pleadings of the 
respondent on the point of rescission should have been definite , express , clear and 
unequivocal so that the other party were not taken by surprise but he has not 
pleaded anything like that at all. It is now an established law that the Court is 
called upon to decide that case which has been pleaded and so it cannot travel 
beyond the pleadings . If it were to do so , this would expose it to the charge that 
It has made out altogether a new case for a party which is not permissible in law . 
That being so , the contention that the original contract came to an end by rescis 
sion has to be rejected . 


26 . There is another aspect of the case . The case of the respondent himselt 
is that he has fully performed his part of the contract by exccuting the entire 
work in question by December , 1956 . He never says that he performed only 
part of the contract and the remaining part of it was rescinded by him . So his 
case is of full performance of the contract in question . It is the case of his 
counsel at the time of the argument that the contract was rescinded on accepting 
the breach and thus it was discharged on 23rd July , 1958 . Such a position cannot 
be accepted and specially so when there are no pleadings whatsoever on the point. 


27. There is still another aspect of the case Assuming that the law of plead 
ings can be ignored on the point of rescission , let us see if the case of the respon 
dent is , in any way , bettered in view of the material that has come on record . 


4694 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART II 


. 


The main plank of the argument of the respondent s counsel is that the statement 
to the effect that 
“ the contractor should be told categorically that he is not to proceed with 

work ." 


is a clear repudiations of the contract and , therefore, the Government has com 
mitted the breach on 23rd July 1958 and the contract came to an end on this day 
by- - recission . In my opinion , this statement does not amount to repudiation of 
the contract on the part of the Government nor it can be said that the Govern 
ment has refused to perform its promise . It is on record that part of the work 
which the respondent had executed was defective. The defects had not been re 
moved in pite of instructions from time to time. It is very likely that the 
Engineers of the Government had to give instructions to the respondent on the 
spot about the particulars of the bad work and the manner in which the defects 
were to be removed . To this effect some indication can be had from the res 
pondent s own reply dated 27th August 1959 (Ex . D . 3 ) . Accordingly , by merely 
asking the respondent not to proceed with the work . in such circumstances , 
would not amount to repudiatica ch the contrart by the Government or refusal 
to perforin iis part. 


28 . Even if we assume that this was tantaniount to repudiation then the ques 
tian ig whether such repudiation was communicated by the Government to the 
respondent and wether the letter accepted it as a breach of the contract. It is 
clear tliat the two Siatemerits referred to in Ex P .5 dated 20th June 1957 and 
Ex : D 1 dated 23rd July 1958 relied upon by respondent s counsel, were exchanged 
between the Bhopal Office and the Delhi Office and not between these offices and 
the respondent. Thcrefore , it should have been established that the alieged re 
pudiation or breach was communicated by either of these offices to the respondent, 
but there is not an iota of evidence on record to establish such communication 
to the respondent. Even if we wera to rely on the presumption arising out of sec 
tion 114 ( e ) of the Indian Evidenci loi that cfficial acts have been regulariy per 
formed and thus presume that the Bhopal Office had communicated the said 
repudiation or breach to the respondient even then his case is not improved . As 
already stated , it must be show that the respondent had accepted the said 
repudiation as breach of the contract and again there is not an iota of evidence 
on record to establish that the respondent accepted it as a breach . Ei en if he 
accepted it as a brearn the matter does not end here. He had to communicate 
his acceptance of the breach to the Government as contemplated by section 66 
of the Indian Contract Act and on this point also, there is as evidence whatsoever 
on record to show that he cornniunicated his acceptance of the said breach . All 
these facts taken collectively fail to establish that the respondent nad accepted 
the alleged repudiation as breach of the contract in question and that he had 
rescinded the said contract. Accordingly , it cannot be said that the contract was 
treated as discharge by breach . 


29. This is not all. The entire superstructure sought to be raised at the time 
of the argument on the ground of rescission is totally demolished by the respon 
dent s own reply dated 27 - 8 - 1959 (Ex . D .m3 ) . This document was brought on 
record by the respondent s counsel. Assuming that the statement in Ex . D .- 1 dated 
23rd July 1958 that the respondent should be told not to proceed with the work , 
amounts to repudiation of the contract on the part of the Government (or that the 
Government had refused to reform its promise ) subsequently the respondent ex 
pressly stated in Ex . D .- 3 dated 27th August 1959 that 

" I want all sincerity to finis ), the said work as early as possible ." 


These words clearly signify that he did not accept that repudiation as breach 
of the contract and did not put an end to it but on the other hand they signify 
his acquiescene in its continuance Section 39 of the Indian Contract Act pro 
vides that , 
" When a party to a contract has refused to perform or disabled himself 

from performing, his promise in its entirety , the promisee may put 
an end to the contract, unless he has signified , by words or conduct , 
his acquiescence in its continuance ." 


As already stated the respondent, by words in Ex . D . 3 , dated 27th August , 1959. 
had signified his acquiescence in the continuace of the original contract is 
therefore , it clearly follows that he did not put an end to the said contract . 


#C, 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1881 


4694 


thu 


AGE 


30 . For all these reasons, the contention raised for the first time during the 
course of the argument that the contract in question was performed as discharg -- 
ed by breach is rejected . 

31. Ex . D . 4 dated 22nd June, 1967, which is a letter by the Superintendent 
of the Bhopal Omce to the respondent simply shows that the respondent s name 
is not in iist of approved contractors since February 1957 and that no work had 
been assigned to him for execution since then . This is of no avail to the res 
pondent because in the present case, we are concerned with the contract in 
question entered into by him in 1954 and not of any other contract either in 1957 
or thereafter, 

32 . I am conscious of the cases in which neither party has insisted on the 
pertormance of the contract for an inordinate length of time and in such cases , 
it may be said thai the parties have mutually abandoned the contract. In such 
a case , the contract may be treated as terminated or discharged by abandon 
ment but a party relying on abandonment must expressly plead and give its 
particulars . I make it clear that at the time of the argument, the learned counsel 
for the petitioner did not canvas in this case that there was mutual abandon 
ment or the contract in question by the parties. Even , had this ground been 
urged , it would not have been accepted for various reasons . Firstly because the 
petitioner has not specifically pleaded any such abandonment in his written state 
ment; secondly because the respondent hiinself stated in the witness box that 
he fully performed the contract and executed the work in question completely 
by December , 1956 ; and thirdly because the contract entered into on 25th Febru 
ary , 1954. was to be fully completed within three months and yet it was com 
pleted only in part by August 1959 i. e . during the period of about 66 months 
and the remaining part remained incomplete . As already stated , there is not 
an jota of evidence on record to show that the respondent completed the remain 
ing part at any time between August 1959 and the date of this petition filed on 
1010 April, 1967. There is also no evidence on record that during this period , 
the parties to the contract had mutually abandoned it. If a contract to be com 
pleted in three months could not be completed by August 1959 and so it was 
stili sutsisting then , there is nothing surprising if the respondent could not 
compite it by 1967 with the result that it is still subsisting even now . There 
fore , had the contention regarding abandonment been raised at the time of the 
a : ument by the learned counsel for the respondent, that would have been of 
no avail to him in the circumstances of this case and in the face of the material 
anci evidence that has come on record . 

33. To conclude, it must be held that the respondent did not fully perform the 
contract in question ( repairing work of Ratnawali , Raisen Fort ) entered into 
by him on 25th February, 1954 , till today and that the same has not been termi 
nated or discharged in any of the manners known to law . I, therefore, hold 
that the said contract subsisted on the date of the filing of the nomination paper 
on 19th January , 1967 and its scrutiny and also on 23rd February , 1967, when 
the election result of the contido- -sa in question was declared . In fact , it 
subsides even today . 

suffers from the disqualification under 
section 9A read with Se 

Act and , therefore , he was not qualified 
or was disqualified for being chosen to fill the parliamentary seat in question . 
Accordingly , I decide issues 1 ( a ) and ( b ) in the affirmative. 

34. Issue No. 1 ( c ) - In view of my above finding, it is clear that respondent s 
nomination paper was improperly accepted and so I decide this issue in the 
affirmative. 

35 . Issue No. 1 ( d ) . The disqualification as contemplated by section 9A read 
with section 7 ( b ) of the Act is absolute because such a disqualification is itself 
one of the grounds for declaring the election of a returned candidate to be void 
under section 100 ( 1 ) (a ) of the Act. As the respondent in this case, who is the 
returned candidate, suffered from this disqualification on the relevant date or 
dates , his election shall have to be declared as void and , therefore, the question 
that the election of the returned candidate was materially affcted by improper 
acceptance of the nomination paper would , in fact, be irrelevant. I decide this 
issue accordingly . 

36 . Issue No. 2. - The learned counsel for the petitioner did not address any 
arguments on this issue at the time of the argument and therefore , this ground 
must be deemed to have been given up and quite rightly . The facts and cir 
cumstances as existing in 1957 at the time of the previous election , on the basis 
of which the respondent was held to be suffering from disqualification under 
section 7 ( d ) of the Act as unamended , are liable to change during the period 
of the years when the present election 1967 was held . A contract between the 


4606 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PARI II 


contractor and the Government may subsist on the relevant dates in 1957 but 
such state of affairs may or may not exist in 1967 on account of the changes in 
between , and , therefore , what was decided in the previous petition on the basis 
of those facts may or may not hold good in 1967 because of the change in the 
circumstances . In fact, there was substantial change regarding the statutory 
provision relating to disqualification . As already stated , section 7 ( d ) as origi 
nally stood was amended in 1958 and again in 1966 . It was replaced by sections 
9A and 7 (b ) of the Act with the addition of the explanation appended to Sec 
tion 9A , the effect of which is to remove the rigour of the two Supreme Court 
rulings cited above. Such being the position , I hold that the findings reached 
in the previous election petition in connection with 1957 election would not 
operate as res judicata in this case relating to 1967 election . I, therefore , decide 
this issue in the negative, 

37, Issue No. 3 . - At the time of the arguincnt, the learned counsel for the 
respondent did not press this issue and quite rightly . The election petition was 
filed on 10th April, 1967, while the election result was declared on 23rd Febru 
ary , 1967. Thus, it was filed on the 46th day. But 9th April, 1967, was a Sunday 
which has to be excluded . Accordingly , it was filed within 45 days from the 
date of the election of the returned candidate as required by Section 81 of the 
Act and , therefore , it was within time. Hence I decide this issue in the nagative 

38 . Issue No. 4 . - - The respondent was not qualified or was disqualifieu under 
the Act for being chosen to fill the parliamentary seat in question and therefore, 
on this ground his election shall be declared to be void . I decide this issue in 
the affirmative. 

39. Issue No. 6 . - In the result, the petition is allowed . The respondent 
suffered from the disqualification under Section 9A read with Section 7 (b ) of 
the Act on the date of his election and in fact he still suffers from the said dis 
qualification even today because the Government Contract entered into by him 
with the Central Government still subsists . Accordingly , his election from the 
Morena - Reserved Lok Sabha constituency No. 1 of the State of Madhya Pradesh 
is declared to be void under Section 98 read with Section 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act . 
The respondent shall pay the costs of the petitioner and bear his own , Counsel s 
fee Rs, 250 for each side, if certified . 

( Sd.) M , A . RAZZAQUE , Judge . 

23 - 10 - 67 

[No. 82 MP /43 /67. ] 
New Delhi, the 20th November 1967 
SO, 4465. — In pursuance of section 107 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the orders pronounced on 
the 29th August , 1967 and 25th October , 1967, by the High Court of Madhya 
Pradesh , Indore Bench , Indore , in Election Petition No. 23 of 1967. 

HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH , INDORE 

ELECTION PETITION No. 23 OF 1967 
Babulal s / o Ganesh Ram , R /o Ghayaraspur, P . O . Ghayaraspur , Distt . Vidisha 
Applicant 

Vs. 
1 . Shiv Sharma s / o Ramprasad, R / o 9 - A , Bomanjee Petit Road , Bombay No. 26 . 
2 . Shambhusingh s /o Bheronsingh of Haveli . 

3. Hiralal Pipal s / o Ramlal, R /o Chanak Marg , Vidisha , 
. 4 . Krishin Kumar Nuttan s / o Hazarilal, P . O . Kurwai. 
5 . Mangalsingh slo Dayasingh , R /o Akodiya, P .O . Dehri, Teh . Sironj. 
6 . Kundanlal s /o Mannoo , M .LA , P . O . Gairatganj. 
7 . Darshansingh s /o Khumansingh , R /O Bans Pipliya . 
Names of Respondent No. 2 to 7 struck of vide order dated , 25th August 1967. 

Application for calling to the Election of Shri Shiv Sharma s / o Rani Prasad 
Frum LA. Vidisha Parliamentary Constituency No. 29 ( Lok Sabha ) . Election 
Petition u / s 80 - A and 100 & 101 of Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

Petition presented by Shri Babulal s / o Ganeshram Counsel for applicant nn 
7th April 1967. The application coming on for final hearing on 29 - 8 -67 before the 


SEC, 8 ( li )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967/ PAUSA 2. 1889 


4697 


Honourable Shri Justice V , R . Newaskar and the Honourable Shri Justice . . . . . . 
in the presence of Shri . . . . Counsel for the applicant, and of Shri R . K . Vijayavargiya 
Counsel for the opposite party, the following order was passed by the Court : - - 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH, INDORE 

ELECTION PETTYION No. 23 OF 1967 
. .CORAM : — The Hon ble Shri V . R . Newaskar, J , 

Babulal V . Shiv Sharma 

ORDER 
The petitioner as well as his counsel are absent even today . They were absent 
on 25th August, 1967. No application has been submitted on behalf of the peti 
tioner explaining the reason for the absence of himself or his counsel on 25th 
August, 1967. No application is submitted setting out the reasons for today s 
absence . 

Question for consideration , under these circumstances , is whether I should dis 
miss the petition for default . 

A Division Bench of this Court in the case reported in A . I. R . 1958, Madhya Pra 
flesh 200 Sunderla ! V . Nåndranidas has taken the view that although the Repre 
sentation of the People Act does not confer specific power upon the Court to dismiss 
a petition for default yet it is axiomatic that no Court or tribunal is supposed 
to continue a proceeding before it when the party who has moved it has not 
appeareu por cared to remain present. The dismissal therelore in urh cases 
can be made under an inherent power which cvery tribunal possesses and no 
express wrovision in the Act was necessary to empower the Court to make such 
an order of dismissal for default. This view , no doubt, is disscnted from in a 
Division Bench derision of Allahabad High Court in the case reported in A . I. R . 
1964 Allahabad 181 Vishwanath V . Malkhan Singh . 

I may observe that it is some what incongruous that an election - petition 
onçc submitted cannot be withdrawn by the petitioner without the leave of the 
Court nor can an clection -petition come to an end by the deuth of the petitioner 
but it can come to an end by more absence of the petitioncr . The principle 
underlying the specific provision in the Representation of the People Act requir 
ing notices to be given to all concerned in the cises of withdrawirl and death 
suggest that once the machinery regarding an election -pelition is set in motion 
it ought not to come to an end cither because the petitioner does not want to 
continue and seeks to withdraw or because of the death and that every elector 
and any other candidate concerned may , if he chooses, continue the proceedings. 
The ultimate idea is to see that the election ought not to be allowed to be sullied 
by any practices which are improper. If a petition cannot be withdrawn without 
the leave of the Court and cannot come to an end in that manner how can it 
be brought to an end by means of a simple conduct on the part of the petitioner 
in remaining absent. However as the matter at present stands I am bound by 
the Division Bench decision ( A .I.R . 1958 Madhya Pradesh 260 - supra - ) . 

I would , therefore, direct the dismissal of the petition for default. 

The respondent shall be paid half of this cost incurred thus far. Counsel s 
fec shall be taxed at Rs. 250 . 
Date the 29th of August, 1967 . 

( Sd .) V . R . NEWASKAR . 
Lakkad . 

Judge , 


HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH , INDORE 

MISCELLANEOUS CIVIL CASE No . 1 OF 1967 
Applicant 

Opposite Party 
Bahosla ? S / o Ganeshram , R /o Gyaraspur, V s. Shiv Sharma S /o Ramprasad . 
Distt. Vidisha . 

R / o Bombay. 


Avulination for Restoration ulo 9 R : 9 Ser. 151 CPC. read with Sec. 87 of 
R . P , Act for Restoration of E . P . 23 / 67 ( Babulal 1 Shiv Sharma ) dismissed on 
29th August, 1967, by this Court . 


- 4698 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[Part 1] 


Petition presented by Shri S . G . Mandloi, Counsel for applicant, on . . . . . 

The application coming on for final hearing on 5th October , 1967 , before the 
Honourable Shri Justice V . R . Nevaswar, and the Honourable Shri Justice , 
in the presence of Shri Bhachawat & Y . I, Mehta, Counsel for the applicant, and 
of Shri R . K . Vijayavargiya Counsel for the opposite party , the following order 
was passed by the Court : 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH , INDORE 
MISCELLANEOUS CIVII. CASE No . 1 OF 1967 ( E . P .) 

CORAM : - The Hon ble Shri V . R . Ncwaskar , J . 

Babulal V . Shiv Sharma. 

ORDER 
This is an application for restoration of an election petition which was dis 
missed for default for failure of the petitioner to appear on two successive dates 
of hearing namely 25th August, 1967 and 29th August, 1967 , The order for 
dismissal was passed on 29th August , 1967, after hearing arguments addressed 
to me on behalf of the respondent, I had my doubts about the propriety of dis 
missing an election petition for default. Therefore on 25th August, 1987. Mr. 
Vijayvargiya counsel for the respondent wus told to be ready on 29th August, 
1967, to argue the point as to whether such a petition can be dismissed for 
default . On 29th August , 1967, Mr. Vijayvargiya argued that point and relied 
upon the decision of the Division Bench of this Court reported in A . I. R , 1958, 
Madhya Pradesh 200 Sunderlal 1 . Nandiamdas , which took the view that the 
election Tribunal dealing with the election petition under the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, has inherent power to dismiss such a petition fur default. 
I assumed therefore that the High Court too like -wise has such power on the 
reasoning in that case. Since there is such a power to dismiss an clection 
petition for default as held in that case, a corresponding power to restore such 
a petition , if sufficient cause is shown by the petitioner for his absence , should 
be taken to vest in this Court . The inherent power , being the residuury power, 
has to be exercised on consideration of the evidence adduced on behalf of the 
petitioner for his absence together with the entire circumstances of the case 
including the diligence shown by the petitioner or otherwise in prosecuting the 
petition . 

The petitioner in this petition for restoration alleged that he had Aled this 
election petition in the High Court at Jabalpur which was directed to be heard 
in the High Court Bench at Indore but that he had received no intimation about 
such transfer from the High Court at Jabalpur and that the petitioner conse 
quently had no knowledge about any dates fixed in this case . According to the 
petitioner he had appointed Mr. Paonikar as his counsel to conduct this election 
petition , Mr. Paonikar returned the papers of the case to the petitioner ind he 
tried to contact him but could not see him personally . Ile then went to Indore , 
engaged Mr Mehta as his counsel and inspected the record of the case in the 
High Court at Indorit . He then came to know that the petition har been dis 
missed for default on 29th August, 1967. The petitioner says that he had 10 
knowicdge about the date 291h August, 1967 as the date in the case nor of any 
Jate of hearing Axed at Indorc. Fle therefore did not appear on that day . 
Mr. Taonikar also did not appear as he had returned the papers to the petitioner 
earlier. The petitioner sought restoration firstly on the ground that the petition 
had not been fixed for hearing on 29th August , 1967 and further that at any rate 
there was sufficient cause for his absence on 29th August, 1967, as he had no 
knowledge about the casc being heard by the High Court at Indore . An affida 
vit in support of these allt. gutionis was filed by the petitioner . 

The respondent opposed the petition denying that the petitioner liad no 
notice about the petition being heard by the High Court Bench at Indore . The 
petitioner s counsel Mr. Paonikar had appeared at Indore on several dates of 
liearing and consequently it could not be contended by the Petitioner that he 
had not notice about the hearing of the case at Indore . Neither the petitioner 
nor his counsel Mr. Paonikar appeared on an carlier date i. e . 25th August , 1967, 
as well when the Court heard argument on the question oť propriety of joining 
respondents No . 2 to 7 when those respondents had no concern with the parlia 
mentary constituency of Vidisha , 

As to the contention that 29th August, 1967, was not the date fixed for hearing 
it is said by the respondent that every date fixed in the election petition is a 
date fixed for hearing and it was so mentioned in the cause- list of that date . 


SEC , 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967/ PAUSA 2, 18894699 


It is also contended by the respondent that the petitioner took no interest in the 
progress of the case throughout and appeared to be fighting some one else s 
battle . Existence of sufficient cause for the absence of the petitioner both on 
25th August, 1967 and 29th August, 1967, was denied . 

As to the competency of a petition for restoration of an election petition 
dismissed for default it is already held above that such a petition is competent. 

First question to be considered in view of the submissions is whether there 
was sufficient cause for the absence of the petitioner on 25th August 1967 and 
29th August, 1967? 

As to this the petitioner s contention is that he had presented the petition 
in the High Court at Jabalpur and had engaged Mr. Paonikar as his counsel. 
He had received no intimation either from the High Court at Jabalpur or from 
Mr. Paonikar about the order of the High Court to the effect that the petition 
would be heard at Indore . He had therefore no knowledge either of the dates 
of hearing fixed at Indore or what took place on those dates . 

In my opinion this contention of the petitioner is without substance . Mr. 
Paonikar did appear for the petitioner on 20th April, 1: 67, when the case was 
first put up for hearing in the High Court at Jabalpur which passed the order 
that the petitioner would thereafter be heard in the High Court Bench at Indore . 
Notice to the counsel is notice to the party . The petitioner therefore has to be 
assumed to have notice of the fact that the petition would be heard in the 
High Court at Indore . 

After the case was taken up for hearing at Indore an amendment peution 
was filed on behalf of the petition , which was heard on 17th July , 1967, Mr. 
Paonikar appeared for the petitioner. On the next date i.e . 27th July , 1967 , 
written statement to the main election petition was filed on behalf of the res 
dent No . 1. The case then was fixed for 3rd August, 1967, on which date the 
petition for amendment filed on behalf of the petitioner was allowed ans) the 
notitionar 1990 Directed to make necessary amendments as per order of the 

he same on or before 8th August , 1967 . On this date 1.e , on 
, Mr. Paonikar was present. There was no compliance with 
the Court to make the amendment. It was ordered on that 

heared on 17th August. 1967, upon the question 
wh : 

: No. 2 to 7 was justified . He was further required 
to .. . 

. . der . Arguments were then heard on 25th August , 
196 . . . 

Je on 17th August, 1967 and the case was directed 
to be adjourned to 25th August, 1967, under the orders of the Deputy Registrar , 
dated 17th August, 1967. On that date neither Mr. Paouikar nor the petitioner 
were present. Arguments on behalf of the respondents were heard and order 
was dictated on Board holding that joinder of respondents No . 2 to 7 was im 
proper and that those respondents should be struck off the record . The case 
was fixed for carrying out necessary anendments as per this and earlier order . 
I had my doubts as to whether an election petition could be dismissed for 
default. Therefore the counsel for the respondent was told on 25th Augus , 1967 
to be ready with that question on 29th August, 1967 . On this daie also neither 
the petitioner nor his counsel were presert. Arguments of the counsel or the 
respondents were heard who relied upon the Division Bench decisioni of this 
Court reported in A . I. R . 1958 , Madhya Pradesh 260 ( supra ) that such i petition 
could be dismissed for default . This Court considered the question an , passed 
an order dismissing the petition for a l ault . 

It is thus plain from these procesdir s that the counsel who held Valetrwana 
signed by the petitioner did participate in ti proceedings at Incre upts Oth 
August, 1967. The petitioner therefore canno , contend that he had no woiice 
of the case being heard in the High Court Bench at Indore . According ( o the 
statement of the petitioner in Court is also according to his rificavit he came 
to know that ihe hearing of his election petition was going on at Indcre when 
Mr. Paonikar returned his papers under a registered envelope either hairth 
or 19th of August, 1967. He then went to Bhanal about 4 or 5 days later + see 
Mr. Paonikar who used to stay in the Circuit-house at Bhopai Heinl not 
meet him there. So he returned home and after a fortnight he went in Indore 
to enquire about the case . According to him right from 10th or 11th of April, 
1967, when he had gone to Jabalpur to file the election petition upto the time 
the received the registered envelope on the 17th or 19th of August , 1967, he had 
no occasion to contact Mr. Paonikar . Subsequent to the last mentioned date he 
had not seen him . He had written two letters to Mr. Paonikar in the month 
of June 1967 with an interval of a fortnight on his address at Nagpur but those 
letters remained unreplied . He thereupon felt anxious about the case . He 


dat. 


* 


j 


4700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[Part II 


suggested that Mr, Paonikar had agreed to settle the account of his fees at any 
time he would meet the petitioner. The petitioner admitted that even on receipt 
of the envelope containing the file of his case he did not feel it necessary to see 
Mr. Paonikar , settle his fees and secure his presence in the case . It is thus plain 
that the petitioner did not care about the case at all after submitting his election 
petition at Jabalpur until he came to Indore subsequent to the dismissal of the 
petition and saw Mr. Mehta before 15th September , 1967, by which date the 
petition for restoration was submitted . The entire conduct of the petitioner 
shows that he had shown no care or diligence in prosecuting his election petition . 
Right from the date when he submitted his election pctition he had hardly any 
real contact with the counsel, he is supposed to have engaged . He meets Mr. 
Paonikar, a lawyer of Nagpur, at Jabalpur . According to him he engaged him 
on daily fees . In such a case it is highly improbable that he would have no 
contract at all with Mr. Paonikar during the entire course of hearing of the case 
at Indore or even later on until the time he submitted a petition for restora 
tion . His conduct reveals at least want of care and diligence if not something 
else as suggested by the counsel for the opponent namely that somebody else was 
really fighting through him . According to him when two of his letters sent by 
him on his (Mr, Paonikar s ) Nagpur address remained unreplied he felt anxious 
about his petition . It is curious and not easily believeable that even then he 
did not consider it necessary to go to Nagpur to see Mr. Paonikar whose home 
address he knew . He also did not take particular care to send his fees which , 
aceording to him , were fixed on daily basis . Further when Mr. Paonikar sent 
back his papers in a registered envelop he tried to see him at the Circuit House 
at Bhopal and when he did not meet him there he returned home and remained 
there for about a fortnight. This confirms the view taken by me earlier that 
the petitioner s conduct throughout showed want of care and diligence . When 
the case was fixed first on 8th August, 1967, Mr. Paonikar , counsel engaged by 
the petitioner, was present and in his presence the case was Axed for hearing 
on 17th August , 1967 and then on 25th August , 1967, Of these dates the peti 
tioner s counsel will be deemed to have notice of the hearing . The pctitioner 
consequently will be deemed to have notice . It is not easy to accept the peti 
tioner s statement that although Mr. Paonikar returned his papers without any 
covering letter yet he believed that he would attend his case . I am , therefore, 
of the view that there was no suficient cause shown by the petitioner for his 
abycnce either on 25th August , 1967 or 2014 August, 1967. 

The second point raised on behalf of the petitioner is that neither 25th 
August . 1987 , nor 29th August. 167, was a date fixed for hearing. It was a date 
fxet merciv for elfeeling mendment as per earlier order and under Chapter 
2 Rule ( XV ) of the Madhy : Pradesh High Court Manual this could have been 
done in the office of the Deputy Registrar. 

In he first place it is not correct to say that the case was not fixed for hearing 
OR 2511 August, 1967 and 29th August, 1967. In the second place Rule ( xv ) has 
no application in the present context as firstly that Rule empowers the Registrar 
and not the Deputy Registrar to require any petition , application etc ., to be 
amended in accordance with the procedure and practice of the Court. In the 
present case the Registrar was not there and even the Deputy Registrar did not 
require the petitioner in exercise of his own power to make any amendment 
of a petition etc . 

The third contention is that the casc was not fixed for hearing . Only thing 
that was to be done was to make amendment. This , as already observed . is not 
correct. If either Mr. Paonikar or the petitioner had been present they would 
have been heard and further orders in the proceedings would have been passed , 
It is not correct to say that no hearing was to take place. In cvery proceeding 
with refcrence to an election petition which is fixed for hearing either under 
the order of the Court or under the direction of the Deputy Registrar, who is 
authorised to do so . it is not necessary to mention what would be done on such 
a date , It is not correct to say that if this is not mentioned absence of the 
party would be iminaterial, He need not assume that nothing further would 
bo chone. On the other hand he must assume that the Election Petition , which 
by the lary is required to be tried expeditiously , would be proceeded with further 
if what is required to be done by a party is complied with . It is consequently 
not correct to say that the case was not intended to be proceeded with further 
but had been fixed merely for i ministerial purpose . It is also not correct to 
say that 25th August, 1967 . was ixed not by the Court but by an incompetent 
person namely the Deputy Regist19r. He is fuily competent under the Rules to 
fix the cases . The decisions in A . I. R 1938 Rangoon 360 Maung Ahrin V . Maung 
Saun , A . I. R . 1934, Lahore 984. Hukam Chand V , Mani Shibrat Dags. 1965 , 
Mathra Pradesh Law Journal Soort Note No. 58 Basanti Bai V . General Manager 


SEC, 3 (ii) | 


TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 , PAUSA ? , 1889 


4701 


M . P . S . R . Tr. Corpcration , and 1959 Punjab 257 Ram Nath v . Paul Singh , upon 
which the petitioner relies have no application . As regards A . I. R . 1938 Rangoon 
360 supra it is held there that if the case is fixed mere y for paying process 
for the witnesses to be summoned or for filing list or witnesses ought not to be 
dismissed for default. 

In this case the case was being taken from time to time on the date fixed for 
trial of the Election petition with a view to take further proceedings. Moreover 
in this case the petitioner had chosen not to appear at all on any earlier date of 
hearing . Counsel must also have returned papers to the petitioner because of 
the petitioner s neglect. 

in the Lahore rase A I. R . 19 " 1 Lahore 984 ( supru ) the case was fixed for 
hearing a clerk who had no right to do so . Such is not the case here. 

In A TR . 1959 Punjab 257 (supra ) it is held that where an adjournment was 
obtained for amending an election palition and the Court permitted the amend . 
mert er vaynıt vi cort : fcilur . io mend or to pay costs dici not justify the 
order dismiss1 ! ! tha petition under Crder 17 Rule 3 C . P . C . 

I am therefore , of the vievi that the petitione , had fuit linowledge of thy 
petition having been fixed for leoring on 25ih August , 1967 and 29th August, 
1867. He remained absent. His counsel too was absent. The case consequenily 
vannot be restored pursuant to our power under Section 151 C .P . C . as there was 
no suff ? snt cause for his absence on those dates. 

The petition for restoration di the Election Petition is consequently unten 
able . Vis dismissed with costs. Cinsel s fee shall be taxed at Rs, 50. 

( Sd.) V . K . NEWASKAR. 
Dated the 27th of October , 1967. 

Judge . 

[No. 32 /MP /23 /67.1 
New Delhi, the 29th Nove:nver 1967 
S . O . 4 : 06 . -- I pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951, the Elertion Commission horeby publishes the Order , pronounced on 
the 7th August , 1967 , by the High Court of Judicatura , Andhra Pradesh ai Hyder 
abad , in Election Petition No. 11 of 1967. 
IN THE HICII COURT OF JUDICATURE , ANDHRA PRADESN , AT 

HYDERABAD 

Original Jurisciictio ? 
Mordily the seventh day oj August 
One thousand nine hundred and sixty seron 

PRESENT : 

The Hon ble MIr. Justice Kunarayya 
Applicotion Mo, 150 and 155 of 1967 and Election Petition No, il of 1967. 
Application No. 150 of 1967: 
N . V . L . Nara unha Rao 

Petitioner, 
Versus 
1. Kotho Raghuramayya 
2 . Sanal: ayala Ankara 

Respordents 
3 . Chorrilu Hanumuialı 
Kolla Rtghuramaiah 

Applicant 
Versus 
1 . N . V . L . Narasimha R20 
2 . Sakayai ? Ankamma 

licspondents 
3 . Chebroju Hanumalab 

Apprication under Section 86 of Representation of People s Act 1951 that this 
High Court may be pleased 
( 1) to treat the application as urgent 
( 2 ) to disruiss with costs of the applicant the Election Petiticn No . 11 of 1967. 
( 3 ) to pay tie costs of this application to the applicant 
( 4 ) to pass such further or other orders. 


4702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 18A9 


Part II 


um- 


Application No. 155 of 1967 : 
N . V . L . Narasimha Rao — Petitioner 

Versus 
1 . Kotha Raghuramaiah 
2 . Sanakkayala Ankamma - Respondents 
3 . Chcbrolu Hanumaiah 
N . V . L . Narasimha Rao - Applicant 

Versus 
1 . Kotha Raghuramaiah 
2 . Sanakkayala Ankamma - Respondents 
3. Chebrolu Hanumaiah 

Application under nrder 1 Rule 10 C . P . C . Section 151 C .FC. that this High 
Court may be pleased 
( 1) to treat the application as urgent, 
( 2 ) to implead Sri G . V . Punnaiah Shastry , as fourth respondent to Elcrtion peti 

tion No. 11 of 1967. 
( 3 ) and to pass such further or other orders, 
Election Petition No. 11 of 1967 : 

In the matter of Election held on 21- 2 - 1967 at the Guntur Parliamentary 
constituency . 
N . V . L . Narasimha Rao (Bar- at - law ) - - Petitioner. 

Versus 
1 . Sri Kotha Raghuramaiah 
2 . Sankkayala Ankamma, M . L . A . } - - Respondents 
3. Sri Chebrolu Hanumaiah , M .LA. J 

Petition under Section 80 and 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951, 
the High Court may be pleased 
( 1 ) to declare the election of the 1st respondent as void . 
( 2 ) to award costs of this petition . 
( 3 ) pass such other relief or reliefs . 

These applications and the petition coming on for hearing , upon perusing the 
Judge s summons and the affidavit, dated 2 th July . 1967 in Application No. 150 
of 67 and Additional affidavits filed in Application No . 150 of 67 and the counter 
affidavit filed in Application No . 155 of 67 and the material papers in Election 
Petition No. 11 of 1967, and upon hearing the arguments of M / S . B . Manawala 
Chowdary , P , Lingayya Chowdary , T , Lakshmaiah and B , Srinivasa Rao, Advocate 
for the applicant in Application No . 150 of 67, and 1st respondent in Application 
No. 155 of 87 and Election Petition No. 11 of 67, and Mr. M , Bhujanga Rao, Advo 
cate for Ist respondent in Application No . 150 of 67 , Applicant in Anplication 
No. 155 of 1967 and petitioner in Election Petition No. 11 of 1967 and of Mr. 
T . Dhanurbhanddu , Advocate for 2nd respondent in Application Nos. 150 and 155 
of 1967 and Election Petition No . 11 of 67 and of Mr. M . Ramaiah , Advocate for the 
3rd respondent in the applications and the petition the court made the following : 


ORDER 
This is yet another case where the Election Petition has to be dismissed in 
limine under Section 86 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act . This time 
it is a case of non - compliance with the requirement of S . 82 ( b ) of the Repre 
mentation of the People Act. The facts bearing on the question are few and may 
be shortly stated , 

In the recent general elections for Guntur Parliamentary constituency held 
on February 21 , 1967. six persons were duly nominated as candidates for election 
Of these only four, including the petitioner Şri N . V . L . Narasimha Rao , and the 
1st respondent, Sri Kotha Raghuramayya seem to have contested for the seat. 
Sri Gullapalli Venkata Punnaiah Sastri who was also a duly nominated candi 
date did not choose to contest . He withdrew his condidature within the pres 
cribed period . Eventually as a result of poll the the 1st respondent was returned 
from the constituency . His election has now been called in question by the 


Sec , 8 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4702 


Petitioner by means of Election Petition No. 11 of 1967. The grounds on which 
it is challenged arc many . Commission of various corrupt practices by himself . 
through his agents and other persons have been alleged in the petition . I necd 
not refer to all of them for , at this stage, I am concerned only with the allege 
tions contained in the petition in relation to Gullapalli Venkata Punnaiah Sastri, 
who is not a party to this proceeding. 

At page 8 of the onnexure to the petition , the petitioner in this behall stated 
thus : 
" The first respondent with a view to split the votes among the brahmins in 

Guntur Town induced Punnaiah Sastry to stand for this Parliamentary 
seat, apprehending that all the Brahmins would solidly vote for the 
petitioner. He was given Rs. 500 by the first respondent for his 
deposit. Sri Punnaiah Sastry accepted the offer and Aled his nomina 
tion . Two days after the naminations were filed , first respondent 
spent about Rs. 300 and arranged a tea party in Brodipet and invited 
the voters of that locality . This function of treating some voices 
expressed their displeasure at this strategy of the first respondent 
Thcrcupon apprehending some violent reaction , the first resrondent 
induccd Punnaiah Sastry to withdraw from the contest offering him 

a reward of Rs. 500 which he gave him towards his deposit" . 
Again in his amendment petition , which was filed after the issues were framed , 
he stated thus: 
" An amount of Rs. 1116 and Rs. 600 and Rs, 500 given on different dates to 

G . V . Punnaiah Sastry by the first respondent were intended to 
induce him to stand as candidate and withdraw his candidature subse 
quently for his own purposes. Thc first respondent used him as well 
as his agent for procuring votes for his election . First respondent 
is guilty of corrupt practice under Section 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( a ) of the R . P . 

Act, " 
Then in para 4 of the annexure to the petition , he stated thus : 
" The first respondent apprehending that his application will be thrown out 

by the Selection Committce approached Sri G . Punnaiah Sastri, the 
President of Guntur Town Congress Committee, to recommend him 
to the said Selection Committer and canvass support for his candida 
ture in consideration thereof he promised a bribe of Rs. 1 , 116 . The 
said Punnaiah Sastri without hastening to act on the more promise 
waited till the first respondent issued a cheque for the said amount, 
Ile thereupon promised his vote and all kinds of support and sent a 
glorious report to the President of the A . P . C . C , stating that the 1st 
respondent alone had every chance of success and the chance of suc 
cess of Smt. Pasvati Devi are few and far between . The first res 
pondent had given him another chegue of Rs. 600 and thereby not 
only procured his vote and also his services in canvassing for votes 

of others . 
Again at page 15 of the annexure Part IV to the petition he stated thus: 
" A car was placed at the disposal of Sri G . Punnaiah Sastry . The first res 

pondent allotted 3 or 4 cars for each Assembly constituency and each 
of them was given not less than Rs. 10 , 000 for canvassing and procur 

ing votes not only for themselves but also for himself , as his agents ," 
Then in para 2 of the amendment petition which was allowed to be added at 
page 7 part I para 5 of the annexure to the election petition , he stated thus: 
" All the signatories headed by Sri G . V . Punnaiah Sastry constituted them 

selves as committee of hosts and issued invitation to facilitate the first 
respondent, were entrusted with Rs. 50 , 000 by the Arst respondent, to 
be distributed among the scheduled caste voters and Communist 
voters in Guntur town inluding Israilpet , Kankaragunta . Venkata 
raopet , Ramircddithota , Arundalpet, Sangadigunta , Sanjeevareddi 
nagar, Sanjeevaiah Nagar , Nehrunagar and they procured votes for 
the respondent by paying them at the rate of Rs. 5 each . The first 
respondent himself through his agents distributed on the day of Elec 
tion , Rs, 5 cach to the voter s of Bongarala Beedu , where Communist 

voters predominate and procured their votes ." 
In para 9 of the amendment petition added at the end of para 5 of the main 
petition , the petition referred to the fact that the 1st respondent wilfully sup 
pressed certain items of cxpenditure including the amount paid to Punnaiah 
Sastry , viz ., Rs , 1116 , RS, 600 ,, Rs, 600 and Rs, 4 , 000 . 


4 - 04 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / P . USA ? , 1889 


[Piri II 


The case of the 1st respondent is that the above allegations inade in the peti 
tion (whether in its original or even amended forin ), are virtually allegations of 
bribery against Punnaiah Sastri within the meaning of S . 723 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( ) and 
S . 123 ( B ) ( a ) and ( b ) of the Act , and therefore Punnaiah Sastri ought to have 
been joined as a respondent to the clertion petition as required under S . 82 ( b ) 
of the Act ; and that as he was not a jomes the petition is liable to be dismissed 
in liminc under Section 86 ( 1 ) of the Act. Or course. To pient was not 
taken in the Writen statemen : 78 at the ticle 5127. th respondent 
had opposed the amendinent. It was 1 .tised at a late stage by way of Applica 
tion Nr. 150 of 1907, after the case was sei down for trial. In this application 
a fresh plea of non - compliance with S . 82 ( 2 ) has been raised . Of shise, there 
are other pleas also but they are covered ty the 13sues ready settled , and the 
learned counsel Sri Larshmaiah coofined hi ? umont only in the vesh piea 
taken . 

The Clectioil-petitioner in his counter to this uroliratia concert hit sinci: 
the respondent never took any objecitai any time befor : Ro on was 
posted for trial, he should be deemed to have waited such an objection , in any in 
view of the provisions of Order I, Rule 13 C . P . C . and his spplication , tcorefore , 
should be dismissed in limins . That Cuar !, le llegation Urbins Pinnish 
Sastri and cf inducing him to stand as a candline and trio withdraw his 
candidature 210 not interdependent cienco . Tev alaT 

i nca offenccs for 
which two distinct issurs have sen iramu A : in in 1 petition the ciience 
of bribing Punnaiah Susiri is alegrar ti hate betri contest by the peritoner , 
on that account Punnaiah Sastri need no ho mado a party . La Furli: coniend . 
ed that the respondent in para 9 of his written statement had srerred thai Pun 
naiah Sastri had of his own vclition in ciscretion filed his nomi: 2 vion as what 
he regarded as a guard nomination and the respondant ni icruceri lini or 
requested him to file his nomination ( r withdraw the same ting that as th : Domina 
tion was intended to be a guard nomination , it was 721ur , | - windiui ! as a 
matter 0 COUTSA in die liine . The neilonel Contend : than vier of this 
avermon : also , Punnaiah Sastri cannot hi qarned to lin a condute within the 
meaning of S , 79 ( b ) . Further , Punnaiah Sa iii never hell himself ut as a candi 
date at any tima, nor did he in fact evur wish to stand o cortiue is a condidate . 

In his additional statement which the olection -retitioner vas oling upon to 
file to clarify his position in relation to + 1: ? staus of Punnaiah S2stri, he stated 


thus:-- 


“ Sri G . V . Punnayya Sastri was not a candidate withia ths m : aning of Ses 

tion 79 ( b ) of the Representation oi People Act . for ne following 

among other grounds : 
( a ) Punnayya Sastry s nomination mors not seem to be a valid nomina 

tion nor was he duly nominated . The person whe is dul:- tion inat 
eu les claims to be dy r ale plot be a cardiaci vrles he 

began to hold himself out as a prospective candigaie . He lia3 in 
satisfy two requiremcat ". Firsly , he must hold hinsoll out as a 
candidate as irom the time oi the election in prospect . Secondly , he 
must be validly nominated . Even assuming without admitting that 
he was duly nominatert, he did not hold himself out as a candidate 

at any time. 
( b ) The first respondent (the petitioner herein ) averted in his written 

stalement that Punnayya Sastry was only a Guard Nomina ion . It 
cannot therefore be said that Punnayya Sastry held imali out as 

a prospective candidato at ony 1119. 
( c ) Punnayya Sastry s name was not found in the list of contrsing cardi 

dates published under Section 38 of the R . P . act. 
( d ) Unless the petitioner hercin , by positive evidence ostablishes that 

Punnayya Sastri is a candidate within the meanira of Section 79 ( 0 ) 
of the Act, satisfying both the requirements meidwiched the ein , this 
application must be dismissed ." 


Even thoug ! the petitioner in his clection retition stale1 trai the 1st respond 
ent had induced Punnaiah Sasici iu stand as a candidata and hercaîier to 
withdraw as such , now he seems to take the stand thar he was not a candidate ai 
all, that he never filed a nomination paper nor as ho duly noninated . A certified 
copy of the list of validly nominaied candidates obtained by the respondent has 
been filed . When shown to the petitioner, he did not dispuie the correctness of 
the said list. 


utca 411 ,1 VE 12ETTE OLIDIS . DELLWEn 23, 1961/ PACS1 2, 18394705 


Whe 


After filing his counter, the election - petitioner filed another petition ( Applica 
tion No. 155 / 1957 ) with a request to implead Punnaiah Sastri in the election 
petition on the ground that the omission to implead him was due to soine inis 
apprehension is to the exact status of Punnaiah Sastri. This petition was opposed 
by all thc hree respondents Patronosnts 2 and 3 in the main xetition took the 
same stand 2 respondent No. 1. 
The points that tal] for dicíamination in view of these two applications are : 
( 1 ) Whether the fieccion petition contains legations of corrupt praci 

against Punnaiah Sastri? 
( 2 ) Whether Punnaiali Sastri is a candidate within the meaning of S , 32 ( b ) ? 
( 3 ) Whether there was non - compliance with the provisions of S . 82 (b ) and 

the election petition is therefore iiable to be dismissed under S . 86 ( 1 ) ? 
( 4 ) Whether Punnaiah Sastri can now be impleaded as a party -respondent ? 
In order to attract S . 92( b ) of the Representation of the People Act , it is 
essential that there should be allegations of corrupt practice against the candi 
date in the petition . What is meant thereuy is that the allcgations must suggest 
and indicate that the candidate has committed a corrupt practice or is guilty 
thercof. It is immaterial whether he hos done the same in his own interest or 
as a candidate . Even if it is done as an ageni, the case will be covered by the 
provision . There do anipie authority in support of these propositions. In S . B . 
ADITYAN , S . KAD SVAni C , A 1. R . 1958 Mad . 171 it was held by the 
Madras High Court that the expression " any candidate who is alleged to have 
committed corrupt practices " employed in S . 82 ( b ) must mean any candidate 
who is alleged to have committed corrupt practices and that there is no scope 
for importing any ,irri riors liabiv under S . 82 ( b ) . In S . B . ADITYAN 
74. S . KANDASWANII & OTEERS ( ) A . I. R . 1358 S . C . 857 the Supreme Court 
held that when S . 82( b ) talks of allegations of corrupt practice against a candi 
date it means allegation that a candidate has committed a corrupt practice, 
Si nilar was the view inken in IMIN LAL 24 HUNNAHIALI A I. R . 1965 
S . C . 1243. 

So then it is to be seen whether there are any allegations of coriupt practices 
against Punnaiah Sastri in the sense that he has commit : ed them . Whatever may 
be said of other allegations, taure are indeed two allegations categorical enough 
which far from being merely narrative of sequence of facts that took place in 
connection with de clection , positively show that the charge of commission of 
corrupt practice was made against Punnaiah Sastri. At one place in the amend 
ed petition , at page 1 . it has been said that all the signatories headed by Sri 
Punnaiah Sastri were entrusted with Rs. 50 ,000 to be distributed among the sche 
duled caste voters and Communist voters in Guntur town , including various spei 
fied areas, and they procuied votes for the respondent by paying them at the 
rate of Rs . 5 nach Obviously enough it is a specific charge of corrupt practice 
coming under S . 123 ( 11 ( A ) against Purraiah Sastri as well. That is tho 
indisputable po: ition which cten ihe petitioner on being asked could not cisowy. 
Then there is an allegation at page 8 of the annexure to the petition , to which 
also reference has been made in the earlier part of this order . Therein the 
petitioner has shown that Punnaian Sastri. induced to stand as a candidat , was 
given Rs. 500 by the 1st respondent. What he actually stated thereafter is this :- - 
" Sri P r ih sos - 

i mented the noftram a filed bis nomination " . Again in the 
same para he state : ī ihus :- - " Thereuron apprehending some viclent reaction that 
first respondent induced Purnaish Sastri to withdraw from the contest offerte: 
him a reward of Rs. 500 which he gave him towards bis deposit." 

If the vaidl amount constituted gratification or reward , there is little doul, that 
receipt of the said amount as a motive or as a reward for standing or withdraw 
ing from being a candidata , is well within the ambit of the amended provision of 
S . 123B ( a ) and is a corrupt practice . It is clear from the allegation in the peti 
tion that the receipt of Rs. 500 constituted a notive icr standing and 3 reward 
thereafter for vithdrawal. As the law stood before the amendment of S 123 
receipt of bribe was not a corrupt practice but as a result of the amendment. 
not only giving but also receiving is equally an offence and is a corrupt practice 
within the meaning of S . 123 of the Representation of the People Act Thus it i.; 
manifest that there are allegations of corrupt practices against Punnaiah Sastri 
in the election petition , as it stood before the amendment and also thereafter. Or 
course , in the election petition there are a large number of other corrupt practices 
alleged to have been committed by the 1st respondent and his agents and other 
persons on his hehrlf hut that is not a matter of consideration for the purus 
of the present apnlication The point for consideration would be simply wheiba 
or not there are a legations of corrupt practices in the petition againsi & Carril. ro 


4706 


THE GAZETTE OF 


A : . 


28 , 


2 . . 


who is not made a party -respondent. The correctness or otherwise of the said 
allegations need not now come up for consideration for it is sufficient if there 
are allegations to that eflect. As we have already seen , there are such allegations 
in the election petition . 

Then the only other point to be considered for the purposes of S . 82 is whether 
Punnaiah Sastri is a candidate within the meaning of that provision . The peti 
tioner now chooses to deny that he was a candidate . It is not easy to understand 
why the petitioner in the face of his clear averments in the election petition to 
the contrary has chosen now to contend that Punnaiah Sastri was not a candi 
date . His averments in the petitioner categorical that Punnaiali Sastri was 
induced to stand as a candidate , that he accepted the officer of Rs. 500 towards 
deposit which was , in fact, paid by the 1st respondent to him , and then again 
he was successfully induced to withdraw from the contest . The very expression 
" withdrawal from the contest" implies that he was a duly nominated candidate 
who as such alone could withdraw from the contest under S . 37 of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act. Had he not gone through the process of Aling 
nomination paper , which must be in order , and come out successful in the 
scrutiny by the Returning Officer , his name would not have found a place in the 
list of validly nominated candidates prepared under S . 36 ( 8 ) of the Representa 
tion of the People Act . The petitioner could not remain unaware of the fact 
that Punnaiah Sastri was a duly nominated candidate for himself being a candi 
date it was in his interests to know about all the candidates so that he may 
raise objection in relation to the various nomination papers filed . Besides he 
must have necessarily looked into the list of validly nominated candidates for he 
was a person directly interested in that matter. He could not help himself to 
remain ignorant of all these events. He must also have been aware of the later 
list of contesting candidates prepared under S . 38 after withdrawals of candidates 
if any . His assertion that he is not aware and his denial as to Punnaiah Sastri s 
Aling nomination paper or his having been duly nominated or his withdrawal 
after due nomination , cannot be acceptable . At any rate , the certified copy of 
the list of validly nominated candidates, prepared under S . 36 ( 8 ) and Aled in 
Court bears standing testimony to the fact that Punnaiah Sastri was duly nomi 
nated . This list has been shown to the petitioner who could not deny the truth 
thereof. All that he contends thereafler is that as the respondent himself had 
said in his written statement that he did not induce Punnaiah Sastri to stand or 
withdraw as a candidate but that the nomination of Punnaiah Sastri was intend 
ed to be a guard nomination , it must follow that his condidature was not real or 
affective but was a mere make believe or showy matter and as he never held 
himself out also as a prospective candidate , he cannot be regarded as a candidate . 
Stress is laid on the words " began to hold himself” out used in S , 79 ( b ) of the 
Representation of the People Act . That section defines candidate in the following 
terms: 
" Candidate means a person who has been or claims to have been duly 

nominated as a candidate at any election , and any such person shali 
be deemed to have been a candidate as from the time when , with 
the election in prospect , he began to hold himself out as prospective 

candidate . " 
It would appear from thc language of the definition that it has, concerned itself 
not only with the meaning of a candidate but also the time from which a person 
will be deemed to be a candidate . While the first part of the definition gives 
the meaning of the term candidate . the second rart introduces a legal fiction by 
providing that a person coming within the meaning clause may be regarded as a 
candidate as from the time with the clection in prospect, he began to hold him 
sell out as a prospective candidate . The second clouse will not be applicable 
unless the condition of the Arst clause is satisfied . To come within the meaning 
clause , he must be a person who inust have been duly nominated as a candidate 
or at least who claims to have been duly nominated though not actually nominal 
ed which may happen in cases where the nomination paper was rejected , but the 
person claims it was wrongly rejected . So then unless a person Ales his nomina 
tion paper in accordance with the law in force , he cannot possibly he regarded as 
a candidate . Even if he files his nomination paper but the same is rejected and 
he acquiesces therein and does not claim to have been duly nominated , he will 
not be within the meaning of S . 79 ( b ) . Thus he should either be duly nominated 
or must claim to have hen duly nominated in order to come within the definition 
of candidate . The question of holding out arises only if the above two conditions 
are satisfied , and even that only for purposes of determining the starting period 
of his candidature , Though as a matter of fact he cun be a candidate only 
when duly nominated or an occasion has arisen by reason of which he can claim 
to have been duly nominated , his candidature may relate back to the time from 
which he started holding himself out to be a prospective candidate with the 
election in prospect. Thus the significance of holding out lies in determining the 


starting time of candidature and that only if he satisfies the condition of the 
Arst clause . His holding out may yet be of no avail if that was not done with 
the election in prospect . The contention , therefore , of the petitioner that unless 
it i proved that Hunnaiah Sastri has held himself out as a prospective candidate , 
he cannot be held to be a candidate , even though he might have filed his nomina 
tion paper and was validly nominated and his name appeared in the list of 
validly nominated candidates , cannot be tenable in view of the terms of Section 
79 (b ) . 

The only other point to be considered then is that since the term candidate as 
defined in S . 79 ( b ) shall continue to have that meaning in other provisions unless 
the context otherwise requires as is clear from the opening clause of S . 79 
whether there is sufficient context in S . 82 which may give a different meanin 
to that term . We may read here the provisions of both Sections 82 and 8B ( 1 ) 
which are in the following terms: 
" 82. A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition , ( a ) where the 

petitioner, in addition to claiming a declaration that the electio . of 
All or any of the returned candidates is void , claims a further declara 
tion that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected , all 
the contesting candidates other than the petilloner , and where no 

such further declaration is claimed , all the returned candidates ; and 
( b ) any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice 

are made in the petition . 
88 ( 1 ) . The High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not 

comply with the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117." 


Section 82 casts duty on the petitioner to make certain persons spected in the 
clauses ( a ) and (b ) thereof party - respondents to the petition as enjoined by the 
gaid clauses. It is open under law to a petitioner to claim in his petition only 
the declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void . 
He can as well claim a further declaration that the petitioner himself or any 
other candidate has been duly elected . Whereas in the former case it is suff 
cient il he makes a returned candidate or returned candidates , as party - respon 
dents , in the latter casc he has to implead as respondents all the contesting candi 
dates, i. C ., candidates whose names were included in the list of validly nominated 
candidates and who did not withwraw their candidature within the prescribed 
period. In this way all the defcated and returned candidates have to be on record . 
It is significant to note that in case any allegations of corrupt practice are made 
in the petition against a condidate , be he a contesting candidate or not, he has ne 
cessarily to be made a party -respondent in either case . The words other candidate 
used in contra -distinction to the words contesting candidates employed in clause 
( a ) manifestly show the clear intention of the legislature that all candidates who 
came within the definition of the candidate as in S . 79 (b ) and who on account of 
withiravu of candidaturc under S . 37 , are not included in the list of contestiny 
can - liratcs prepared under S . 38 of the Representation of the People Act, are with 
in the meaning of that term , Such candidates have necessarily to be made party 
respondents , if there are allegations against them of any corrupt practice . It is 
immaterial whether it is a single corrupt orartire or many that are alleged in the 
petition . They are in either case necessary parties to the constitution of the 
petition . In other words, in their absence the petition cannot be tried , but as 
enjoined by S . 86 ( 1 ) hos to be dismissed in liming. It is no doubt provided in 
S . 99 that in case any charge of corrupt practice is made in the petition , the High 
Court shall give a finding At the time of the final disposal of the petition whether 
the said corrupt practice has been proved and shall also specify the names of all 
persons, if any, who have han prove:t at the trial to have been guilty of such 
corruvt ractices and this it has to do only after notice heing given to the persons 
concernent to show Cause why they should not be namerl and after giving them 
opportunity to meet the raSC 29111st them as cnioined in clouses ( ? ) and ( b ) to 
the proviso to S . 99 . The lajslature has given special importance to corrupt 
praction committed hy candidates and did not leave it open to the discretion of 
the petitioner to join surh candidates in the petition but made it obligatory under 
a special provision on him to make them Darty - respondents to the petition itself 
on pain of dismissal of the petition so that from the very initial stage the atten 
tion of the Court may be centered on these allegations and the enquiry there into 
mav he made in the presence of those persons. That is the obvious intention of 
the Parliament. 


It follows, therefore that Punnalah Sastri, who was a candidate other than - 
contesting candidate as he had withdrawn his candidature, we a necesstry party 


to the petition as allegation of corrupt practice was made against him in the peti 
tion . His non - inclusion is therefore fatal to the petition . 

This position in law is no longer in doubt and is well settled by muthority 
Including the compelling authority of the Supreme Court In CHATURBHUJ 
CHUNNILAL V . ELECTION TRIBUNAL , KANPUR AND OTTIERS ( (AIR , 1958 
A11 . 809) , the Allahabad High Court after exhaustive discussion on the subject 
held that sub - clause ( b ) of S . 82 of the Act must be interpreted as covering cases 
where a candidate is alleged to have connitled a corrupt practice at any time 
cven though he may have ccascd to particirale in the contest by withdrawing his 
candidature or may have been incapable of participating in the election because 
his noinination was rejected but he claims to have been duly nominated . The 
Bombay High Court in BABURAO TATYAJI BHOSLE V . MADHO SRIHARI 
ANEY ( . ) A . I. R . 1961 Bom . 29 held to the some cffect that a candidate who had 
withdrawn his candidature under Section 37 after filing his nomination does not 
cease to be a candidate and thereforc so far S . 82 ( b ) is concerned inust be made a 
party to the election if allegation of corrupt practice is made against him . Il 
further lield that the context in S . 82 ( b ) does not require to construie the word 
candidate in any other sense than in S . 79 ( b ) . The sun is the view of the Pun 
jab High Court is expressed in RAO ABIIE SINGH 2 , RAO NIHAL SINGH RAM 
JI LAL ( ) A . I. R . 1964 Punjak, 209 , which lias been affirmed in appeal by the Sup 
reme Court in AMIN LAL 2 , HUNNA MAL (. ) AIR , 1965 SC . 1243 . It has been laid 
down by their Lordships following the decision in MOHAN SINGH V . BHANWAR 
LAL ( . ) A . I. H . 1964 S . C . 1366 , that a person who was a duly nominated candidate 
though he withdrew his candidature within the time prescribed by the rules nust 
for the purpose of S . 82 ( b ) still be regarded as a candidate . When an election1 
petition contained any imputation of corrupt practice against such a person , it 
cannot be regarded as properly constituted unless he was impleuded as a respon 
dent. It may be remembered that in that case only one of the several grounds 
set out by the petitioner to set aside the election related to the candidate who 
was not made a party - respondent. Similar was the circumstance of the case in 
HAR SARUP V . BRIJ BHUSHAN SARAN ( ) A . I. R . 1964 All, 341). This case went 
in appeal to the Suprene Court ( ) A . I. R . 1967 S C . 8.36 . Their Lordships observ 
ed that if purity of election has to be maintained , which is the purpose of S . 123 , 
a person who is a candidate as defined in S 79 (b ) will remain candidate even after 
he withdraws till lection is over and if he commits a corrupt practice whether 
before or after his withdrawal, he would be a necessary party under S . 82 ( b ) . 

It is unnecessary for me to multiply citations. It is clear that Punaiah Sastri, 
who had withdrawn from the contest, was a candidate lor the purposes of sub 
vertion ( b ) of S . 82 and he was a necessary party to the petition . His non -inclusion 
must entail the penalty uncler S . 66 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act. 


Section 86 ( 1 ) is express and explicit and enjoins on the ( ourt to dismiss any 
petition which cloes not coinply with the provisions of Sections 81 , 82 and 117. 
This provision being mandatory in nature has to be obeyed in full. The Court 
has no power to condone or dispense with or waive non - compliance . 


The petitioner , in order to remedy this defect, has filed an application that he 
may be permitted to implead Punnaiah Sastri as a purty - respondent even at this 
stage as his non -inclusion was based on a bona fide belief that he is not a neces 
sary party to the petition 


It is urged that it is discretionary with the Court cven in such circumstances 
to permit the petitioner in exerrise of its poners under 01 Rule 10 , C . P . C . , to add 
party to the petition . It is difficult to subscribe to this contention . It is not as 
though the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code are made applicable without 
any qualifications. S . 87 of the Representation of the People Act makes the pro 
visions of the Civil Procedure Code available so far as they are not inconsistent 
with the provisions of the Act . In fact, S . 87 says that subject to provisions of 
this Act or any rules made thereunder, every election petition shall be tried as 
nearly as may he in accordanre with the procedure applicable under the Civil 
Procedure Code to the trial of the suiis . The provisions of the Civil Procedure 
Code are thus made subordinate to the provisions of the Act and can be followed 
only when there is no express provision in the Act and only to the extent they 
mean no inconsistency with it . I may refer in this behalf to the following obser 
vations of the Supreme Court in JAGANNATH 1 . JASWANT SINGH ( ) A . I. R . 
1954 S . C . 210 : 
“ The general rule is well - settled that the satutory requirements of elec 

tion law must be strictly observed and that on election contest is not 


# 11 


VILLA . Well 


done will 


. 1. . . 1 . . . sad 


16 


- 40 


WANAW 


Menu 


an action at law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory proceed 
ing unknown to the common law and that the court possesses no 

common law power, 
" It is also well settled that it is a sound principle of natural justice that the 

success of a candidate who has won at an election should not be lightly 
interfered with and any petition seeking such interference must 
strictly conform to the requirements of the law . None of these pro 
positions however has any application if the special law itself cori 
ters authority on a Tribunal to proceed with a petition in accordance 
with certain procedure and when it does not state the consequences of 
noncompliance with certain procedural requirements laid down by 


it. 


It is always to be borne in mind that though the election of a successful 

candidate is not lo be lightly interfered with one of the essentials of 
that law is also to safeguard the purity of the election process and 
also to see that people do not get elected by flagrant breaches of that 

law or by corrupt practices. 
In cases where the election law does not prescribe the consequence or does 

not lay down penalty for noncompliance with certain procedural re 
quirements of that law , the jurisdiction of the Tribunal entrusted 

with the trial of the case is not affected .” . 
It is c car from the above that it is only when the special law does not pres 
cribe the consequences of noncompliance with certain procedural requirements 
that the Court has power to exercise its discretion consistent with the principles 
of justice . If the consequences of noncompliance are provided in special law the 
Court would not be justified in ignoring the same or in permitting avoidance of 
the consequences by adopting a procedure which would bring about such a result . 
In this view of the matter it is impossible to hold that the petition which ought to 
be dismissed under the mandatory provisions of S . 86 ( 1 ) can at all be kept alive 
and be proceeded with either by invoking the powers under Order 1 Rule 10 , viz ., 
by impleading the necessary party or by permitting the party to delete that por 
tion of the allegations in the petition which necessitate the impleading of Pun 
naiah Sastri. This proposition again is well settled by chain of authorities . In 
K . MAMARAJ NADAR V . KUNJ THEVAR & OTHERS ( ) A . I. R . 1958 S . C . 687 
their Lordships while holding that if provisions of S .82 which prescribe who shall 
be joined as respondents to the petition are not complied with , the Tribunal is 
bound to dismiss the petition , observed that the defect of non - joinder of neces 
sary parties cannot be cured by amendment inasmuch as the Election Tribunal 
has no power to grant such amendment, be it by way of withdrawal or abandon 
ment of part of the claim or otherwise . The same principle has been reiterated 
in INAMATI MALLAPPA BASAPPA V . DESAI BASAVARAJ AYYAPPA ( ) 
A . I. R . 1958 S . C 698 :: AVIN LAL 2 . HUNNA MAL ( A . I . R . 1965 S . C . 1243 
and some other decisions of the Supreme Court . The petitioner , relying on the 
last para of the decision in AMIN LAL . V . HUNNA MAL () A . I. R . 1965 S . C . 1243 , 
has argued that the observations contained therein must mean that the Court can 
notwithstanding the provisions of S .86 ( 1 ) direct the necessary party to be im 
pleaded in exercise of its powers under 0 . 1 Rule 10 . C . P . C . The observations of 
their Lordships are not susceptible of the inference that the petitioner seeks to 
draw . It was observed there that even if there was power to permit the joinder 
of parties that could not be exercised at any rate after the time has run against 
the petitioner. In the present rase also the same difficulty would arise if it be 
assumed that 01 Rule 10 . C . P C . as available to remove the defect in S . 82 ( b ) 
for unless that defect is t emoved within the period of limitation , the stable in 
formity which would warrant dismissal of the petition under S . 86 ( 1 ) would 
endure . Judged from any ingle the notition for amendment cannot be allowed . 
On the other hand , the application of the 1st respondent must be allowed and the 
Election Petition must be di.missed in limine. 

The piea of waiver raised by the Election Petitioner invoking Rule 13 of Order 
1 . Civil Procedure Curte has to necessarily vield to the mandatory provisions of 
S . 86 ( 1 ) which leares no option to the Court but to dismiss the petition . 

I , therefore , allow Application No. 150 of 1967, disallow Application No. 155 of 
1967. and dismiss Election Petition No 11 of 1967 in limine . The petitioner shall 
pay the costs of all the three respondents , which are fixed at Rs. 200 to each . 

Sa . / . V . KRISHNASWAMI, 
Dy. Registrar . 

[ No. 82 / AP / 11 /67. ] 


New Delhi, the 30th November 1967 
S . O . 4467. - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on 
the 10th October , 1967 by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jodhpur 
in Election Petition No. 13 of 1967. 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN 

AT JODHPUR . 
Original Jurisdiction 

JUDGMENT 
SHRI MOHAN RAJ 

1 . SHRI SURENDRA KUMAR 
Syo Shri Manmal Jain , 

TAPARIA , 
Resident of Village Deoli , 

S / o Shri Gajana, 9 . 
at present residing at Bali. 

Raja Santosh Road ; 

Alipur, Calcutta . 
2 . SHRI HARISH CHANDRA . 

S / o Shri Ram Chandra 
Mathur, Resident of 

Nayabas, Jodhpur . 
3 . SHRI KHANGARSINGH 

S / O SHRI KISHNA , 
Resident of Village Devli, 

Tehsil Kharchi. 
4 . SHRI RAMZAN KHAN 
S / o Shri Lal Khan 

Resident of Village 

Lambia , Tehsil Pa i. 
6 . SHRI RAM PRASAD 
S / o Shri Ram Chandra 

Ganchi, Amardas - ki-Gali. 

Gandhi Bhawan , Pali. 
S , B . Election Petition No. 13 of 1967 . 
Date of Judgment- - 10th October 1967. 

PRESENT : 
Thc Hon ble Mr. Justice Jagat Narayan . 
Meskrs Marudhar Mridul and Inder Chand for the petitioner . 

Messrs. C . L . Aggarwal, Roshan Lal Maheshwari and B . N . Chanda for 
Tespondent No . 1 . 

Mr. Prakash Chander Mathur for respondent No. 2 
By the Court 

This is an election petition under section 80 of the Representation of the 
Peop e Act 1951 challenging the election of Shri Surendra Kumar Taparia . 
respondent No. 1, to the Lok Sabha from the Pali Parliamentary Constituency . 
Tho pelition has been filed by one Mohan Rai, an elector to the Constitucncy . 
Tho election has been challenged under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) on the ground that 
respondent No. 1 , his clection agent and some other persons with his consent 
committed various corrupt practices defined under section 123 . 

The election petition was presented hefore this Court on 7th April, 1967. 11. 
was put up on 14th April, 1967. before me with an offre report that the provisions of 
sections 81, 82 and 117 had been complied with . This was done in pursuance 
of section 86 ( 1 ) which lays down that the High Court shall dismiss an election 
petition which does not comp y with the provisions of these sections. It was 
not detected by me at that time that the petition did not comply with the pro 
visions of section 82 ( b ) . Allegations of corrupt practice had been made in the 
petition against Shri R . D . Periwal who was the election agent of the returned 
candidate . Shri R . D . Periwal was himself a candidate at the elettion . He filed 
his nomination paper for the Lok Sabha from the Pali Parliamentary Consti .. 
tuency on 18th January , 1967. It was accepted as valid , Shri Periwal however 
withdrew his candidature on 23rd January , 1967. 

Section 82 ( b ) provides that a petitioner shall join as respondents to his 
petition any other candidate against whom allegationg of any corrupt practice 


sw . 10 


. 


2 . 


are made in the petition . " Candidate " occurring in section 82 ( b ) has been 
detined under section 79 ( b ) has follows: 
" "Candidate means a person who has been or claims to have been duly 

nominateu as a canuidate at any election , and any such person shall 
be deemed to have been a candidate as from the time when , with 
the election in prospect, he began to hold himselt out as a prospec 
tive candidate ." 


As Shri R . D . Periwal was duly nominated as a candidate at the election 
for this constituency he was a candidate within the meaning of the word as 
used in section 82 ( b ) and I should have dismissed the election petition on 14th 
Apri , 1967 under section 86 ( i ) on the ground that Shri Periwal was not joined 
as a respondent to the petition . The provision contained in section 86 ( 1 ) 151 
mandatory . 


As has been mentionde above the petition was not dismissed under section 
88 ( i ) by me on 14th April, 1967. Respondent No. 1 appeared througlı counset 
on 15th May. 1967 and prayed for time to file a written statement which wag 
granted . He filed his written statement on 15th June, 1967. In this written 
stateịnent no objection was taken on behalf of respondent No. 1 that the peu 
tion was liable to be dismissed under section 86 ( i) for non - compliance 0 .0 
section 82 (b ) . Objections were taken that several of the allegations were 
vague and were lacking in necessary particulars. On 2nd Ju y , 1967 a detailed 
order was passed asking the petitioner to furnish further and better particulars 
of the corrupt practices alleged in the petition , An amendment application was 
filed on 26th July , 1967. Respondent No , 1 tiled objections against the amend 
ment application . These objections were decided on 1st August , 1967 . One 
allegation of corrupt practice and several instances of it were deleted for want 
of sufficient particulars . The petitioner was al owed to amend the petition in 
accordance with the order of this Court dated the 1st August, 1967. Time was 
granted to respondent No. 1 to file an amended written statement. This amend 
ed written statement was filed on 24th August , 1967. 


In this written statement a preliminary objection was taken that the petition 
should be dismissed under section 86 ( 1 ) as Shri R . D . Periwal was not joined 
as a respondent. This objection in the written statement was based on the 
allegations contained in the amended election petition . The hearing of this 
preliminary objection commenced on 29th August, 1967. The learned counsel 
for respondent No. 1 contended in his arguments that the petition as ſiled origi 
nally betore this Court should have been dismissed under section 86 ( 1 ) ag it 
contained allegations of corrupt practice against Shri R . D . Periwal who was 
a candidate at the election within the meaning of Section 82 ( b ) . 

On behalf of the petitioner it was contended that as the original petition has 
been amended this Court can only examine the amended petition to see whether 
or not it complies with the provision contained in section 82 ( b ) . The decision 
of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Amin La ! 7", Munna Mal ( 1 ) was 
referred to in this connection . That decision is of no lielo in decidin thio 
question . In that case the original petition din not suffer from the defect of 
non - compliance of section 82 ( b ) . It was only the amended petition which suffer , 
ed from such a defect . It was contended on behalf of the election petitioner 
before their Lorships that what sub -section ( 3 ) of section 90 of the Act , as it 
stood at that time, contemplated was a petition as originally filed by the 
petitioner and an amended retition could not be dismissed for non - compliance 
of section 82 ( b ) . Section 86 ( 1 ) of the Act as it now stands corresponds section 
90 ( 3 ) of the Act before the amendment. In repelling the above argument 
their T .ordships observed : -- 
" Since an election petition can he permitted by the Tribunal to be amended 

a petition which has heen amended , would , from the date of amend 
ment, he the only petition before it. Therefore, that would be 
the petition with respect to which it could exercise the powers con 
ferred upon it by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 90. To hold otherwise 
would lead to the result that the powers conferred by the legislature 
on the Tribunal by this provision will become non - exercisable in 

respect of one category of election petitions." 
It was not disputed before their Jordships that even if the petition as filed 
originally suffered from the above defect it had to be rejected . Under Section 
86 ( 1 ) it is the duty of the Court to dismiss the petition if it does not comply 


AJ. R . 1965 Supreme Court 1243 . 


4712 


THE GAZETIL OF INDIA : DECEM - ER 40 , 1501 / LAUVA -, losu 


Ani na 


MEVE 


with the provisions of section 81 or 82 or 117 . The petition is put up lofore 
the Court to see if there is any defect of the above nature and it is only if the 
Court is satiskied that the petition does not suffer from any such defect that 
service is effected on the respondents . Even ii the Court omits 10 ctice any 
such defect at that stage it is bound to dismiss the petition under section 86 ( 1 ) 
whenever it is brought to its notice that the petition as filed originally suffered 
from any such defect. The provision contained in section 86 ( 1 ) is rnandatory 
and a petition which is liable to be dismissed under this provision cannot be 
allowed to be amended . If any amendment or such 3 petition is perinitted by 
the Court, the amendment itself is void . 


I now proceed to examine the original as well as the amended petitions 


Para 9 of the original petition runs as follows: --- 
“ That in order to promote feelings of hatred against the Congress candi 

dates on the ground of religion , caste and community the respon 
dent No. 1 or his election agent or other person with tne consent 
of respondent No. 1 got prepared a poster on cloth in which a 
Congressman (with a Gandhi cap ) was depicted as butcher with 
a naked sword slaughtering a cow . This Congress man was shown 
as wearing Muslim dress . This poster was published in the main 
Bazar of Rani just near the office of the respondent No. 1 at Rani. 
Rani is a big industrial centre and people from inore than 300 
villages visit Mandi at Rani every day. The matter was reported 
to higher authorities by local police and Vikas Adhikari and the 
poster was thereafter removed . This is also a corrupt practice 
according to section 123 of the Representation of People Act 1951." 


On behalf of the petitioner it was contended that the allegations container 
in the above paragraph do not amount to a corrupt practice against the election 
agent of respondent No . 1 . The allegation is no douht vague inasmuch as it is not 
stated whether respondent No. 1 was responsible for the preparation or publi 
cation of the poster or his election agent or some other person with the consen ! 
of respondent No. 1 . The petitioner was directed to give the name or names of 
persons who prepared the poster or who exhibited it. He was also asked to 
give particulars of the facts on the basis of which he had assured that the 
poster was exhibited with the consent of respondent No. 1. In the amended 
petition ( para S the petitioner has alleged that the poster was got prepared by 
respondent No. 1 and it was he who got it affixed outside his office in the main 
Bazar of village Rani, through his agent Shri N . C . Mehta . 


There is thus no categorical allegation of corrupt practice against Shri R . D . 
Periwal contained in para 9 of the original petition . I do not express any opinion 
in this case whether or not the exhibition of such posiers amount to ä сorcunt 
practice under section 123 . 


Para 10 of the original petition runs as follows: 


" That respondent No 1 or his election agent or other pers us with the Cuti 

sent of respondent No . 1 sent persons in Sarthu gars in the Pali Par 
liamentary Constituency who told clectors of this constituency that 
if they vote for Congress they would be responsible for cow slaughter 
(GCO Fatya Not only this , they administered witing to the wors 
not to vote for Congress . This is a corrupt practice Arconditie 113 
section 123 of the Representation on the People Art. 145 !." 


This did not contain a clear allegation that the election agent commit the 
corrupt practice. The allegation made in it is that either respondent No (ou 
his election agent or some other persons with the consent of responderit No 
sent the Sadhus. The petitioner was asked to state in respect of cach Sadhu 
the date and place where he told the voters that if they voted for the Carigress 
they would be responsible for cow slaughter and administered oaths to thein not 
to vote for the Congress. He was also asked to state in respect of each Sarthu 
whether he was sent by respondent No . 1 or his election agent or by some othe : 
person with the consent of respondent No. 1 . He was asked to disclose the name 
of the person who had sent the Sadhus with the Consent of respondent No. 1 


Sec . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1957/ PAUSA ? , 1889 


1009 


4713 


In response to the ahova order the petitioner added the following sub -para by 
way of further particulie s to the above paragiaph . Para 10 has been renumbered 
as para 9 :- -- 
" ( i ) The same was done at a meeting in Gandhi Katia Pali on 13th January 

1967 by Swami Sankranand Ji, Richanand Ji and Ramsukh Ji and on 
16th January 1967 at a neeiing in Dhanmandi ny Swaini Banarsi Giri 
Maharaj These mcetings were arrangeci by respondeni No. 1 an : 

his election agent and his local workers ." 
Rralliss inara 9 of the amended petition along with the above sub -fara I am 
of the opinion that it clear allegation of corrupt practice againsi he election agent 
is made ou . The rgime: t on bedait ci ihe petiticner is that it is not stateci 
thai rerozder : N . 1 or his election agent or other persons who sent the Sadhus 
to tali ta voters that if they voted for the Congress they would be cominitting the 
sir. Ci COX Sivighter and 10 also administered ouths to the voters noi to vote 
for thc Crogoro were 1or to d2 . .) by responrient No . : or his lectio ı agent or 
other 1:24ons who sent thin with the consent ? f respondent No . Reacing the 
allegro cs a whole it is implicit that the Saczus were ni with the object 
that they may purcroise uncle infucice over the voters by telling then that iſ 
ther voia for ti , loogress " her woult be l amitiivse the si ? OLOW slaughter . 
It was in this ar t iespotkat No . 1 in his eicction agent arranged one 
meeting i oni Ka ... a Poli 7.81? a : 1415 n11 . Sani Saranand Ji, Sami 
Riclismerili 2 :1 Swa!: Pansulih Ji addosso cam . Irine : they arranged 
arother instins Un t : Joljar 1907 li Dihai. cori ad arranged for Swami 
Bare si Ciri maharaj in c res : i pili ih saime omject nane? 12ell the voters 
that they soule m ittit 1F, sir: uf COW S1214hter ji viry voted for the 
Conress and to m inimal }? i them och tovo ? to : Congres Il was 
not lisuutet tha se gount to corrunt practices wider sartion 127. 
Pui as 11 - 1.5! 30 the origina ] cleciion peti103 run as molios: -- 
" ( ! ! Th 1 : 00art No . 1 in his Ieciior ureni ? ?d persons autho 

ricci 2 resposdeni 210 . 1 in 11 : 00 and artocrised the expenditure 
Of ! 1. 9 suirs oi noney for the ofictinn campaign of risoporvieni No . 1 
between 13 : 2 January 1967 ant 63rd February 13 " To ClAction 
expensis ofrodent No . ! nuen the cicresaic" dat - , faz exceeded 
the linit Rs . 25 ,103 . ir therely the respondent No . 1 contra 
vaned the provividas of sections 77 and 123 of the Repenentation of 
the Peonie 4 .ct 1 :33 . The retur Cler by th. . t undent No. 1 is 
whoily incorrect. That some of the instances airongst others of such 

Alection cxpens 5 har tel enumerated in this rcliciou ." 
" ( ? ) Toai th ? respondent No. i . hii election agent and other persons autho 

sed by respondent No . I consumed retrol worth at least Rs. 50 . 000 / 
during 1: Jinuary 1467 to 23rd february 1967 in the Pali Parlia . 
nc ( anticoncy in ( ondection with this election ." 


The Daini . .;112 mil oſ explicita Orasaibad under Section 77 ( 3 ) for a 
candidato 10 o c ion to a Lok Sabha seat is Rs. 25 .000, - The above two para 
graphs contain a cica allegation that both respondent No . 1 and l.is election 
agent wer : guilty oi the corrupt practice njentiooed in sertion 1: 3 ( 6 ) . 


Two contentions were ervance on behal: cf the peti - iona “ bith regard to the 
above tv panugaris . Ce was that iuil particulars of the corrupt practices 
ailege unter the above paragrophs as required by seriion 83 ( 1 ) ( 0 ) were not 
given by the titioner in those two paragraplis and therefore they cannot attract 
the provisions 01 sertion 83 ( h ) . This arruinent is misconceived . Senticn 82 ( b ) 
only roin s to all - gations 0 . Corrupt practice . If allegations of Cirruri practice 
are made in the petition but particilars as required hy section 63 ( 1 ) ( b ) are not 
giver: the High Court has powe : unde . section 86 ( ) to ailow such particulars to 
be given by an amendment of the pe ition . In this ronnetiol ( may refer to 
the decision on thei. Lorships of the Supreme Court in Harich Chaira v . Triloki 
Singh ( ) . 


1:2. Beal v . Sut:115) tha election petition mercủy stated that the respondent, 
hy hinsell 20 otion persons in his liehali , was guilty , of bribery . {reating an 
une 17 . int!: 2000 " . The respondent took out u erplication or an order that the 
perilicn be taken or the file c :l the ground that it merely stated il grounds but 


I AIR . 1957 Supreme Court 444 . 
py ( 1869) 4 C . P . 145 . 


1714 


THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 29 , 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 18A9 


Part 1 


not the facts constituting the particulars as required by R . 2 . In the alternative 
it was prayed that the petitioners should be directed to give particulars relating 
to the several corrupt practices . In rejecting the former prayer , BovillC . J . 
observed : 
" Now , with regard to the form of the petition , it seems to me that it suff 

cienily follows the spirit and intencion of the rules , and no injustice 
can be done by its generally, because amplc provision is made by the 
rules to prevent the respondent being surprised or deprived of an 
opportunity of a fair trial, by an order for such particulars as the 
Judge may dcem reasonable I think , therefore , it would be quite 
Useless to require anything further to be stated in the petition than 

appcais here . " 
With reference to the alternative prayer, it was held that an order that the 
particulars bc furnished three days prior to the trial was a proper one to be passed . 
A similar decision was given in the Greenock Election case , a report of which is 
given in a footnote at page 150 of ( 1869 ) 4 C - P . 145 - 38 L . J . P . C . 145 . 

These two English decisions were approved by their Lordships of the Supreme 
Court in the above decision and it was held that the failure to give particulars 
of corrupt practices is not fatal to the maintainability of the clecțion petition . 
Their Lordships observed : 
“ There is , il should be observed , nothing in the Election law of England 

corresponding to S . 83 ( 2 ) the question of particulars being left there 
to he dealt with under the Rules applicable to the trial of causes. 
The consequence is that while under the English practice, the peti 
tioners are not o rliged 10 state particulars of corrupt practices in 
their petition , under S . 83 ( 2 ) a statement of those particulars must 
be made in ihe petition in a separate list annexed thereto But this 
dliference is more a matter of form than of substance, as s . 83 ( 3 ) 
provides for particulars being called for and furnished in the course 
of the drorecdings, and does not affect the conclusion as to the power 

of the Tribunal to allow new instances to be pleaded ." 
In the present case I did not order delelion of the above two paragraphs from 
the petition in the first instance but gave an opportunity to the petitioner to fur 
nish full particulars as required by section 83 ( i ) ( b ) and when full particulars 
were given I allowed the petition to be amended . The provision contained in 
section 82 ( b ) is attracted whenever an allegation of any corrupt practice is made 
in the petition even if the particulars of the corrupt practice are given . 

The next contention on behalf of the petitioner is that the allegations container! 
in paras 11 and 13 do not amount to allegations of corrupt practice against the 
election agent. The only amount to the corrupt practice against respondent No . 1 . 
The arguincnt is that it is not alleged in these two paragraphs that the election 
agent by himself incurred or authorised expenditure in excess of Rs. 25 ,000 / - and 
that no corrupt practice under section 123 ( 6 ) is committed by a person other than 
the contesting candidate unless he by himself incurs or authorises expenditure 
In excess of Rs. 25,000 / -. No authority was cited in support of this contention . 
It was argued that the commission of a corrupt practice entails a severe penalty . 
Section 8A provider that a person found guilty of a corrupt practice by an order 
under section 99 shall be disqualifieri for a period of 6 years from the date on which 
that orders take cffcct. It was contended that a person other than the contesting 
candidate should only be held to be guilty of the corrupt practice under section 
123 ( 6 ) if it is alleged and proved that he by himself incurred or authorised ex 
penditure in excess of the prescribed limit in connection with the election . 


I am unable to accept this contention . Section 77 runs as follows: 
“ 77. Account of electior vrp ? nses and marurum thereof. - ( 1) Every candi 

date at an election sha l, cither by himself or by his election agent, 
keep a separate and correct account of all expenditurc 111 connection 
with the election incurred or authorised by him or by his election 
agent between the date of publication of the notification calling the 
election and the date of declaration of the result thercol, both dates 

Inclusive 
(2 ) The account shall contain such particulars , as may be prescribed . 
( 3 ) The total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may 

be prescribed ." 


SEC , 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967/ PAUSA 2. 1889 


4715 


According to the above section either the candidate should himselt keep a 
separate and correct accolint of all expenditure in connection with the election 
Incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent or the election agent should 
maintain such an account. Keeping an account means that it should be main 
tained from day to day so that the person maintaining it - whether it be the candi 
date himself , or his election Agent - knows exactly how much expenditure hat 
been incurred upto date , in order that the prescribed limit may not be exceeded . 
A duty is cast not only on the candidate but also on his clection agent to keep 
a watch on the total expenditure so that it does not exceed the prescribed limit . 
If it so cxcceds then in my opinion both the candidate and his eleciion agent are 
equally responsible for it . 

A perusal of thç provisions of the Representation of the People Act 1951 goes 
to show thit the powers and privilegcs of an election agent are the same as those 
of the candidate. It stan is to reason that he should share the same responsibilities 
with the candidate and should be subject to the same disabilities as the candidate 
himself. Under Section 41 a perron who is for the time being disqualified for 
being a member of elther House of Parliament or cither House of the Legislaturt 
of a State is also disqualifled for hcing an election agent at any election . Under 
Sections 46 and 47 the c ! ection agent has the same power of appointing polling 
and counting agents as the candidate himself . Under section 50 both the candi. 
date and his election agent are authorised to perform the functions of a polling 
agent or a counting agent. Under Sections 77 and 78 an election agent has the 
same power of maintaining accounts and lodging them with the District Election 
Officer as the candidate himselt. Under Section 100 ( i ) ( b ) a corrupt practice com 
Initied by an election agent or with his consent, has the same effect as a corrupt 
practice committed by the candidate or with his consent. Under section 123 which 
defines coriupt practices the clection agent is on the same footing as the candidate . 

I am accordingly of the opinion that if the total expenditure authorised or 
incurred by the candidate and hy his election agent exceeds the prescribed limit 
both of them are guilty ot the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 6 ) , even if neither 
the candidate nor the elcrtion agent individually exceeded the prescribed limit . 
It is their joint responsibility to see that the expenditure incurred or authorised 
by the two of them does not exceed the prescribed limit. In this view of the 
matter paras 11 and 13 of the original petition contain an allegation of corrupt 
practice against the election agent of respondent No. 1 . 
Para 10 of the original petition runs as follows: 
" That the respondent No . 1, his election agent or other persons with the 

consent and authorisation of respondent No. 1 held big feasts at 
Bizapur, Bera , Mundara , Rupawas , Gundoj, Hatharlıu , Mandha Thiko 

nas, Barisu , Undarya Bera, Sinyari Bori Mada , Gajnai, Karnol etc . 
These feasts were held in order to induce electors to vote for respondent 

No. 1 . " 


It has not been specifically alleged in the above paragraph that the election 
agent also consented to the holdiag of one of the feasts . An opportunity was given 
to the petitioner to furnish full particulars of the corrupt p . actice alleged under 
the above paragraph . He did not furnish the necessary particulars in accordance 
with the order of this Court. This paragraph was therefore deleted . 
Para 24 of the original pctition runs as follows: 
" That the respondent No. 1. his clcction agent and other persons with his 

consent and authorisation secured the assistance of Government ser 
vants Patwari, Gram Sewaks, teachers ctc. for the election campaign 

of respondent No. 1." 
The above paragraph contains a clear allegation that the election agent also 
secured the assistance of Patwarls who are Government scrvants covered by sec 
tion 123 / 7 ) ( f ) . Full particulars of the corrupt practice alleged under the above 
paragraph were not given in the original petition . The petitioner was given 
opportunity of furnishing full particulars. As he failed to do so the above park 
graph was deleted . 

The cllect of making a baseless allegation recklessly by a petitioner is the 
same as that of making a bona fide allegation . 
Para 25 of the original petition runs as follows: 
" That the respondent No 1, and his election agent and other persons by 

the consent of respondent No . I paid and oftered bribes between 


1716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1389 


[PART II 


13th January 1967 to 14th February 1967 to induce electors directly 

or indirectly to vote for respondent No . 1 . 
The following amongst others are some of the instances: 
( a ) Rs. 2 , 000 / - were paid to the Mukhia of Scheduled Caste voters in 

village Khudala in the night of 14th February , 1967, packets of . 
sweets and Rs. 2 / . to Rs. 5 / - per voter were distributed in several 

houses . 
(b ) Rs. 2 / - to Rs. 5 / - per voter were given to about 360 scheduled tribe 

votel s of Sadri. 
( c ) Rs. 7 .500 / - were paid for the community temple for the village Eavan 

riya Ka Jumpa, Sariri and Rs . 100 ! - each wee paid to 22 Mukhias. 
( d ) Rs. 750 / - were paid to ora Hakkeran Meghwal of Sadri for scheduled 

casie voters of Chota Bhambhio Ka Bas. 
( e ) Rs. 750 / - were offered to Shri Kuparam Suthar , a trustee of Shri 

Laxmi juarain Temple Luniwas who refused to take the amount. 
but it was later aid to another Mukhia . This temple is worshippeci 
by all Subar oi Esii aud Desuri Trhsils . Similar offers werc inade 

in other iliares of 1: . * Tehsils , 
( f ) Sari Mchiriai Bobanac Sacri was offered R . 2 .000 , - to induce hin : 

not to canyass for Congress and to secure voters fe . respond No. 1. 
(3 ) Rs. 750 ,- were paid for the temple oi the V . Bheetwara ( Teh . Bali ) 

through the Sarpanch 
(h ) 13. 2.000 , wen paid for the ropairs of two tenplo : a1 Bali . 
( i ) Shri Abdu rzak of Oujni, Mohanlal Sharna of Buapur, Shri Nachu 

lal ci Nana and Sh . i Tolaram (if Nalnu were offered money to secure 

votos for respondent No . 1 . 
( j) Shri Rama and Tola Ivena of V . Riola were paid Rs. 200 ; - and 20 Kg 

oi riin for the village ſeast. Toruy was paid similar y ac Thandi 

Beri, B :1: 1 and several other villages . 
( k ) that in the right of 14th Feb . uary , 1967 in about 20 viliares of Bali 

Constituency Biri pindles, malch bozes , sweet packeis and Rs. 21 

per voter were cist ihuted alons with voter slips . 
( 1 ) that in about 50 villagers or Bali Constituency 1 K ; Gur was distri 

buted per house on the day of meetings of Swaianti a Party heirl 

during 13th January 1967 to 13th February 1967. 
(m ) Rs . 5 , 700 / - ware promised to the Pancias of Fuat communit : ri Rani 

lor th : repairs of the temple . 
(n ) Rs. 500 /- were pai ! to Maghwal Dhaana of Desuri Asse:nbly Consti 

tuency . 
( 0 ) Rs. 1 .800 /- were paid for idgah at Khcrwa and Rs. 5 ,000 - for school 

building 
( p ) Rs. 700 / vere paid to Ghosis of Pali for purchase of grazing ground 
( r ) Rs. 500 / - were pair ! 2 V . S0 . a . for school building and Rs. 1500 / - 

fou Largara conmunity . 
( s ) Rs . 3000 : - were paid a V . Limbia for school building a : Pyau . 
( t ) Substantial amount was paid to the Bawaries of Lanbia and Bhakari 

wala and Kumbaras and Mochis of Bagrae . 
( u ) Handsome amount was paid for school building at Gadawari and 

Mahiia Shiksha Sangh , Ranawas. 
( v ) More than Rs. 10 , 000 / - were paid to labourers at Pali . 
( w ) Rs . 100 / - Weie paid at V . Kharda for school building. 
(x ) Rs 1,000 /- trü paid for repair of Mahalcoji temple at T . Basant 

( Sumerpil ) . 
( y ) Rs 10 .000 ; - were paid in the wedding of the daughter of Kasrisingh 

ji of Joiawor and a transisto . was presenled to Thaku : Sahib of 

Jaðar . 
(z ) Sarpaachas vi villages in Kharchi Assembly Constituency were paidi 

Rs. 500 / - to Rs 1 ,000 / -. 
(aa ) Rs. 2 . 000 / - were paid to Khateeks of Kushal ;ura . Rs. 29 . 000 , - were 

paid to Patels and Kumars of Kushalpura . Ro. 1.000 - were paid 


SEC. ( 11 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4717 


to Mochis of Raipur and Rs. 500 / - were paid to Meghwals of Dhan 

keri, 
( ab ) A letter was addressed by Shri Taparla s agent Shri Pukhraj Kalani to 

Mukhias of village Deoli Udewatan and Banjakuri that if they vote 
for Swatantra candidate they will get their case pending in the 
court of Munsif Magistrate Sojat compromised or will compen 

sate them , 
(ac) Shri Sukhlal Dave was paid Rs. 3, 000 / - to secure votes for Swatantra 

Party . 
(ad ) Clothes and money were distributed in Koida and several other 

villages . 
(ae ) Rs. 2 . 000 / - were paid for Masazid , Anjuwan at Kotda 
( af ) Rs. 2 ,000 / - were paid for Higher Secondary School at Korda . 
(ag ) Rs. 1, 000 / - were promised to Mukhias of Maghwal community of 

Gogunda for Ramdewara temple . 
(ah ) Employment was promised to several influential persons or persons 

connected with them for getting their support in securing votes for 

respondent No . 1. 
( ai) Promised to employ persons in Mill and Factories which were promised 

to be established in Pali Parliamentary Constituency if votes were 

cast In favour of respondent No . 1 , 
(aj) Several houses were taken on rent for the offices and for residence 

of the respondent No . 1 and his workers at several places in the 

Pali Parliamentary Constitucncy . 
( ak ) That more than 150 jeeps, cars and other conveyance of the various 

companies at Jaipur, Bharatpur etc . were utilised in the election 
ot respondent No . 1 between 13th January 1967 to 23rd February 

1967 Several jeeps were also purchased for the election . 
( al) That the posters and pamphlets were printed and published by res 

pondent No . 1 in contravention of the provision of section 127 - A of 
the Representation of the People Art, 1951. " 


In the opening part of the above paragraph there is a clear allegation that 
the election agent of the respondent also offered and paid bribes beiwcen 13th 
January 1967 and 14th February to induce the electors to vote for respondent 
No 1. 

It will thus be seen that clear allegations of corrupt practice were made against 
the election agent of respondent No . 7. It is not disputed that Shri R . D . Beriwal 
was the election agent of respondent No. 1 who had Aled his nomination paper 
which had been accepted as valid and who was thus a candidate within the mean 
ing or section 82 ( b ). The election petition is thus liable to be dismissed under 
section 86 ( 1 ) the provision of which is mandatory. In this connection I may refer 
to the decision of this Court in Shri Brij Mohan Lal v . Shri Fateh Singh and others 
( S . B . Election Petition No . 11 ot 1967 decided on 13th May 1967 ) . 

I accordingly dismiss the election petition with costs in favour of respondent 
No. 1 . 


Respondent No . 2 supported the petition shall hear his own costs . The other 
respondents did not appear . 


The petition was heard on 15th Junc 1967, 2nd July 1967, 1st August 1967 , 
29th August 1967 and 26th September 1967 to 29th September 1967 . Respondent 
No I was represented by more than one counsel. The case was heard on the last 
four days only for part of the day as evidence in another election petition was 
being recorded . I assess the advocates fee in favour of respondent No. 1 at 
Rs. 750 / -, 


The substance of the above decision shall forthwith be communicated to the 
Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Election Commission and an authenticated copy 
of the judgment shall be sent to the Election Commission as provided under section 
103 of the Representation of People Act 1951. 

( Sd .) JAGAT NARAYAN 

[ No. 82 / 13 / 67 (RJ).] 


4718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


Parr 11 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 
S . O , 4468. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 22 
of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
directs that in column 3 of the Table appended to its notification No. 434 /GJ /66 , 
dated the 11th November , 1966 for the existing entry against 7 . Bhavnagar, the 
entry " 1 . Prant Officer , Amreli" shall be substituted . 

(No. 434 / C , 67. ] 
New Delhi, the 8th December 1967 
SO . 4469. — In pursuance of section 106 of tne Representation of the People Act . 
1951, the Election Commission herby publishes the Order , pronounced on the 22nd 
August , 1967, by the High Court of Judicature , Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad In 
Election Petition No . 5 of 1967. 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE ANDHRA PRADESH AT HYDERABAD 

(Ordinary Original Civil Jurisdiction ) 
Tuesdun the turentysecond day of August one thousand nine hundred and surty 
geven 

PRESENT 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice Anantanarayana Ayyar 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 5 / 1967 

AND 
APPLICATION Nos. 166 . 197 AND 198 OF 1967 
Election petition No. 5 of 1967 : 
BETWEEN 
Putti Venkata Sulbalah - Petitioner 

versus 
Smt. B . K Radhabai. — Respondent. 

Petition under section 81 of representation of People Act that the High Court 
may he pleased to declare the election of respondent to the House of People fron 
Bhadrachalan (Schedule Tribes) Constituency as void and ( 3 ) to Award costs of 
the petition . 
Application 168 of 1967 : 
B . K . Radha Bai. 

Petitioner (Respt . in E . P . 5 of 67 on 

the Ale of the High Court). 
Versus 
Putti Venkata Subbalah . 

Respondent (Petitioner in do). 
Application praying that for the reasons stated in the accompanied affidavit Aled 
(herein the high court may be pleased to disinriss the election petition No. 5 of 1967 
on the file of the High Court . 
Application No. 197 of 1967 : 
Putti Venkata Subbaiah. 

Petitioner (petitioner in E . P . 5 of 1967 

on the Ale of the High Court), 
B . K . Radha Bai. 

Respondent (Respt . In do ). 
Appllcation praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit Aled in 
support of application 198 of 1967 the high court may he pleased to excuse the delay 
in presenting the application No. 198 of 1967 petition to impleading Smt. Vani 
Ramnarao as a party respondent to the election petition No. 5 of 1967. 
Application No. 198 of 1967 ; 
Putti Venkata Subbalah . 

Petitioner (petnr, in E . P . No. 5 of 1967 
on the Hle of the High Court ). 


Vs. 


1. B . K . Radha Bal 
2 . Smt. Vani Ramana Rao ſ 


Respondents ( respts. in do ). 


Src. 3( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28. 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


. 4719 


Application praying that in the circumstances stated in the accompanying affl 
davit the high court inay be pleased to add Smt. Vani Ramanarao , as party respon 
dent to the election petition No . 5 of 1967. 


ORDER 
This election petition and applications coming on for hearing on Thursday the 
10th , Monday the 21st days of August, 1967 and this day and upon hearing the 
arguments of Mr. P A Chowdary , advocate for the petitioner in the election peti 
tion and application Nos. 197 and 198 of 1987 and the respondent in application 
No. 166 of 1967 and of Mr. Balamkonda Reddy advocate for the petitioner in 
application No. 166 of 1967 and respondents in E . P . 5 of 1967 and application No . 
197 and 198 of 1967 the court made the following Order : - - 


Putti Venkata Subbaiah Alęd election petition No . 5 of 1967 on 7th April 1967 , 
impleading as sole respondent, Smt. B . K . Radhabat and praying for reliefs AS 
follows: — 


“ ( a ) to declare the election of the respondent as void , 

(b ) to award costs of the petition ." 
The respondent filed a written statement contesting the petition . Various issues 
were framed and the case was posted for trial. Subsequently the sole respondent 
filed application No. 166 of 1967, praying for dismissing the election petition with 
( osts . In it, she has urged the ground that the petition is bad for non - joinder of 
one Smt. Vani Ramanarao , who, according to the respondent is a candidate within 
the meaning of section 79 (b ) of the representation of the People Act, 43 of 1951 
(Hereinafter referred to as the Act ), and on the ground that the election petition 
discloses allegations of corrupt practices against her , falling under section 123 ( 1 ) 
( B ) ( a ) of the Art . 

The election petitioner contested the petition . 

The argunients were heard in full and closed on 10th August 1967 . Order was 
reserved. 


Sebsequently on 14th August 1967 the same question was raised and argued in 
application No. 169 of 1967 in E . P . No. 13 of 1967 and in application No . 178 of 1967 
in E . P . No. 6 of 1967. When those arguments on those petition and other applica 
tions incidental to and associated with them were heard . Sri P . A . Choudary , the 
learned counsel for the petitioner, sought permission to file two applications and 
1 granted the perimission . 


The petitioner accordingly Aled two applications on 21st August 1967. They are 
as follows; Application No . 198 of 1967 is Aled praying to implead Smt. Vani 
Ramanarao as party respondent to election petition No . 5 of 1967 and to pass such 
other order as this court may deem fit. Application No. 197 of 1967 is filed to 
excuse the delay in presenting the application No . 198 of 1967. 


11 the election petition the petitioner has alleged as follows : 
" Bhadrachalam Parliamentary Constituency is reserved for Scheduled Tribes . 

Therefore, only an elector who belongs to Scheduled Tribes can contest 
for this seat. The respondent herein is Doll by caste and is not a 
member of the Scheduled Tribes , and therefore, she is not qualified to 
contest from the aforesaid Bhadrachalam Parliamentary (ST. ) Con 
stituency reserved for Scheduled tribes . However the respondent pro 
fessing to be a (Koya Aled her nomination and got herself elected . . . 
The petitioner also submits that one Smt. P . Vani Ramanarao member 
of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council and the younger sister of 
the respondent had filed her nomination as an independent to the 
House of the People from the aforesaid Bhadrachalam reserved con 
stituency . The respondent being doubtful of winning the election 
against her sister Smt. Vani Ramanarao who 18 a member of the Legi 
slative Council, very popular in political and Oncial circles, occupying 
several places requested Smt. Veni Ramanarao to withdraw from 
the election contest by promising her to pay the amount that is said 
to have been incurred by Vani Ramanarao in consideration of her with 
drawal from the contest . Vani Ramanarao at the request of the respon 
dent agreed to withdraw on the aforesaid terms. Accordingly the 


i 


. 


INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 / PAUSA 2 . 1889 


[PART II 


respondent issued a cheque In the name of Smt. P . Vani Ramanarao 
for a sum of Rs. 1500 / - on 23rd January 1967. The respondent also 
paid a sum of Rs. 1500 / - in cash to Smt. Vani Ramanarao . Immediate 
- ly Smt. Vani Ramanarao cashed that cheque in the Cooperative Central 

Bank at Bhadrachalam and realised the amount. Thereafter , in pur 
suance of the agreement, Smt. Vani Ramanaran withdrew her nomina 
tion at the last hour. The petitioner therefore submits that the elec.. 
tion of the respondent is vitiated by the act of bribery " 


The election petitioner urged some other corrupt practices. 


On the basis of the pleadings in the election petition and the written statements, 
Ave işsues were tramed . The following issues are relevant for discussion in this 
order : 


18sue No. 1 : 

Whether the respondent is a Doli by caste and is not a member of the scheduled 
tribes in Andhra Pradesh ? . 


Issue No . 3 : 

Did the respondent induce Vani Ramanarao her own sister to withdraw frora 
candidature to the Parliamentary seat in Bhadrachalam Constituency by paying 
her a sum of Rs. 3 , 000 / - as consideration for the same What is its ellect ? 


Issue No . 5 : . 

Whether K . P . Santhi Raju , S , Suvarna Kumar and T .GS Sundarrao are neces 
sary parties to this petition ? What is the effect of their non - inclusion ? 


ISSUE NO . 5 was the result of the contention in paras 4 and 5 of the election peti 
tion that the nomination papers of three persons mentioned in that issue ought to 
have been rejected , as they were improperly accepted , with the consequence that 
the result of the election was thereby materially affected . 


I shall refer to the parties by their denomination in the main election retitla 
and to Smt. Vani Ramanarao by her name in this order 


In application No . 160 of 1967 it is urged as follow s : The election petitiuni 
contains allegations which amount to corrupt practices contemplated by s . 123 ( 1 ) 
( B ) (a ) of the Act by Smt. Vani Ramanarao by her receiving cash and cheque for 
withdrawing from her nomination , and by her , in pursuance of the agreement, 
actually withdrawing her nomination , Smt. Vani Ramanarao was a candidate 
within the meaning of section 79 (b ) of the Act. Therefore , Smt. Vanl Ramonaran 
is a necessary party under section 82 (b ) of the Act. The non - joinder of Smt. Varzi 
Ramanarao in fatal to the maintainability of the election petition . Therefore, elen 
tion has to be dismissed under s. 86 ( 1 ) of this Act. 


The election petitioner Aled a counter raising the following contentions : - 


( a ) The election petition was presented to the High Court on 7th April 1967 and 
thereafter it was referred to an Hon ble Judge of this court for trial under section 
86 ( 2 ). I beg to state when once the High Court acting under section 86 ( 2 ) did not 
dismiss the election petition the same cannot be dismissed after it has been referred 
for trial under section 86 ( 2 ). 


(b ) Smt. Vani Ramanarao is a Doli by caste and is not a person qualified to be 
nominated because she does not belong to any Scheduled Tribe and in fact it is 
one of the issues in the election petition whether a person belonging to Doli Caste 
is qualified or not qualined to contest from a Scheduled Tribe seat. I therefore 
beg to state that Smt. Vani Ramanarao is not a candidate who has been duly 
nominated as a candidate at the election . Therefore she is not a person who should 
have been added under Section 82 ( b ) 


( c ) The plea which is now taken in application No . 166 / 1967 has not been taken 
by the respondent during the course of the trial spread over all these months, 
The question whether Smt. Vani Ramanarao is a candidate ur nor is a mixed ques 
tion of fact and law and cannot be decided merely on the vague and uncertain and 
inclusive allegations made conveniently by the respondent." 


ec . 3 ( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4721 


- 


For convenience . I have marked the different portions as (a ) (b ) (c ) as forming 
separate contentions :-- - 

Though the learned advocate for the election petitioner did not specifically raise 
in his counter during the course of arguments he raised a contention as follows : - -- 

( d ) That section 86 ( 1 ) of the Act is ultra vires, because it contravences Article 
14 of the Constitution as it provides for dismissal without allowing impleading of 
parties which is allowed in C . P . C . under order 1 rules 9 , 10 and 13 to cure non 
joinder of necessary parties . This point, being a pure question of law was allowed 
ky mne to be taken in the course of the arguments . 

For proper understanding of the contentions of Shri P . A . Choudary and his 
orguments on the: e points the wording of some important sections of the Act is 
Lecessary to be extracted 

Section 80 - A runs thus : 
" High Court to try Election Petitions : 

" ( 1) The Court having jurisdiction to try an election petition shall be the High 
Court. 

2 : Such jurisdiction shall be exercised ordinarily by a single judge of the High 
Court and the Chief Justice shall, froin time to time, assign one or more judges for 
that purpose " . 
Section 81 runs thus . 

“ ( 1) An election petition . . . . .may be presented to the High Court by any 
candidate , . . . 
Section 86 runs thus : 

" ( 1 ) The High Court shall disiniss an election petition which does not comply 
with the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117 . 

Explanation . An order of the High Court dismissing an election petition under 
this sub - section shall be deemed to be an order made under clause ( a ) of section 98 . 

( 21 As soon as may be after an election petition has been presented to the High 
Court, it shall be referred to the Judge or one of the Judges who has or have been 
assigned by the Chief Justice for the trial of election pctitions under sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 80A . 

( 3 : Where more election petitions than one are presented to the High Court in 
respect of the same election , all of them shall be referred for trial to the same 
judge who may , in his discretion try them separately or in one or more groups" . 
Section 87 runs as follows: 

" ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this act and cf any rules made every election 
petition shall be tried by the high court as nearly as may be in accordance with 
the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 to the trial of 
suits . 

Provided that the High Court shall have the discretion to refuse for reasons to 
be recorded in writing to examine any witness or witnesses . . . . 
Section 98 runs as follows: 

" At the conclusion of the trial of an election petition the high court shall make 
an order - 

( a ) dismissing the election petition : or 
(b ) cieciaring the election of all or any of the returned candidates to be void , 


Section 99 runs as follows: 

( 1 ) " at the time of making an order under section 98 , the high court shall also 
make an order 

The first contention of Shri P . A . Choudary is that , at the time when the High 
Court receives the cetition which is presented to it . the High Court is functioning 
as High Court and can dis:niss the petition as High Court and that, once the case 
is referred to a Judge for trial ( " we are not concerned in this case of the case being 
referred to more than one Judge" ) , from that stage onwards, the judge to whom it 


4722 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[Part H 


- 


is referred is a persona designata and functions as such and not as High Court and 
therefore , does not have power to dismiss it under section 86 ( 1 ) of the Act." 


Sri Choudary has relied on the decision in Q . A . Q . K . LAKSHMANAN CHETTIAR 
V3. J. Ş . KANNAPPAR AND OTHERS (AIR 1927 Madras page 93) . In that case , 
a Full Bench of the Madras High Court considered the question whether the Chief 
Judge of Small Causes Court was not a court subject to the machinery of the Civil 
Procedure Code, but a persona designata whose decision was not only not appeal 
able but cannot be called up in revision . The order of the Chief Judge concerned 
was an order passed in revision pronouncing the nomination of a person for elec 
tion as Councillor under the Madras City Municipal Act, 1919 to be inyalid and 
directing the name to be struck off the list of nominations. The learned Judges 
referred to certain provisions in Rule 4 of the rules framed under the Madras City 
Municipal Act of 1919 and order 1 ( a ) Rule 6 of the rules of the Small Causes 
Court 1902 and observed as follows: - ( at page 95 ) . 
" The argument is that if by any Act or rule a matter shall be referred to 

the Chief Judge alone, he is nevertheless acting as the court. We are 
of opinion that this rule only applied to cases where the reference 
made by the act or rule in question 19 clearly to the court, though 
functioning through the Chief Judge and that it leaves untouched the 
real question which we have to decide ; namely , whether this power 
was conferred - by R 4 made under the Municipal Act upon the Chief 
Judge as the court functioning through himself or upon him as a 
persona designata . Looking at the Municipal Act , it is clear that the 
draftsman of that act was quite alive to the distinction between the 
court of Small Causes ( vide S , 59 ) and the Chief Judge of that court 
( vide S . 54 ). It is difficult to resist the inference that when the Chief 
Judge is referred to in the act he was meant to act as a persona desi 
gnata and not as representing the court" . 


That conclusion depended upon the provisions in the act conrerned in that case. 
Similarly , in MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF RANGOON Vs. MA SHAKUR 
( AIR 1928 Rangoon page 25 ) it was held by the Rangoon High Court that when by 
an act of the legislature , a new authority is constituted for the purpose of determin 
ing questions concerning rights which are themselves the creation of the act and a 
Judge or presiding officer of a court as distinct from the court itsell , is directed to 
perform the functions of the newly created authority then it must be presumed 
unless the contrary is expressly indicated or necessarily implied that the intention 
of the legislature was that the judge or the presiding officer should perform those 
functions as a person designated and not as a court. Therein It was also observed 
whether a civil court exercising special jurisdiction is persona desiguata or not 
will have to be inferred from a consideration of the special powers exercised and 
the special functions performed by it. 


In the present case, section 80 ( A ) specifically mentions that the jurisdiction 
to try an election petition is in the High Court and also calls it as Court having 
Jurisdiction . Section 81 mentions that presentation is to the High Court , and 
section 86 mentions that dismissal for non -compliance with the provisions cí 
section 82 etc . is to be done by the High Court . The explanation to sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 86 specifically mentions that dismissal under section 86 ( 1 ) should be 
deemed to be an order made under section 98 ( A ) . An order under section 98 ( a ) 
can be made only by a Judge after full trial i.e ., only by a Judge to whom the 
election petition has been assigned by the Chief Justice under section 38 ( 2 ) and 
who has followed the procedure prescribed in other portions of section 86 and 
conducted the trial as mentioned in section 86 and the following sections. This 
shows that an order of dismissal for non - compliance passed under section 86 ( 1 ) , 
is by the same authority who can pass order under Section 98 ( a ) . From this . 
It follows that a Judge to whom an election petition is assigned by the Chief 
Justice under section 86 ( 2 ) functions as High Court, Section 3 mentions that 
the same judge may try the several petitions separately or in groups and sub 
sections 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 refer to what the Judge would be doing in the course of 
trial as acts done by the High Court. 


So , from the wording of the various sections it is clear that the Judge to 
whom an election petition has been assigned functions as a High Court and not 
as persona designate and that a distinction between such judge and the High 
Court is a distinction without a difference , 


Sri Choudary seeks support for his contention from the provisions of the act 


HC, 3 (il) 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


472 % 


as it stood before the amendment in 1966 . The provisions for dismissal, before 
the amendment were as follows :- - 

" Section 85 . If the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117 have 
not been complied with , the Election Commission shall dismiss the petition . , " 

Section 86 ( 1 ) . If the petition is not dismissed under section 85 the Election 
Commission shall then refer the petition to an Election Tribunal for trial... " 
" Section 90 ( 3 ). The Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition which does 
not comply with provisions of section 81, section 82 or section 117 notwith 
standing that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission under 

section 85 " . 
By the amendment act of 1966 the trial of election petition by Tribunals was 
changed over to trial of election petitions by High Court under section 86 ( 1 ) 
already extracted by me. 

Shri Choudary contends that , originally there was scope for dismissal at two 
stages for non - compliance of the provisions etc., the first stage being the Com 
mission and the second stage being the Tribunal. He contends that the intention 
of the legislature in enacting section 86 ( 1 ) in place of old section 85 and old section 
90 ( 3 ) before amendment is that there should be dismissal only at one stage , and 
that could be done only by the authority who receives the petition and not by 
the authority to whom it is made over for trial (by the authority who receives 
it ) . This argument of Sri Choudary is based on the assumption that the amend 
ment was with a view to see that there should be dismissal only at one stage 
instead of the original two stages, and a further assumption of the very fact 
which is in controversy viz ., whether the Judge to whom an election petition is 
assigned by the Chief Justice under section 86 ( 2 ) is different from the High Court 
which is mentioned in the present section 86 ( 1 ) as competent to dismiss . and 
in section 81 as the Iligh Court to which election petition may be presented . 

Section 86 ( 1 ) does not expressly by implication indicate that High Court shall 
have power to dismiss an election petition only before it is assigned to a Judge, 
or that it cannot be dismissed subsequently after assignment, by the Judge to 
whom it is assigned . 


I find that the assumptions made by Sri Choudar y are not well -founded or 
justifled and that the contention of Sri Chuudary is not acceptable in view of 
unmistakable and clear indications available in the wording of the various sections 
which have already been referred to by me. 
CONTENTION ( B ) : 

It has been held in the order in application Nos. 150 and 155 of 1967 by 
Kumarayya , J. dated 7th August 1967 ( 3 ) that a duly nominated candidate , who 
had withdrawn is a candidate under 8 . 79 (b ) of the Act , that if an allegation of 
corrupt practice is made against such a person that person has to be impleadect 
under S . 82 ( d ) of the Act , and that if such person is not impleaded , the election 
petition has to be dismissed under S . 86 ( 1 ) of the Act, which is a mandatory pro 
vision . Kumarayya J . has also held that a petition to amend an election petition 
by impleading a withdrawn candidate against whom a corrupt practice has been 
alleged in the original election petition cannot be allowed , and has to be dismissed . 
That decision is based on ample authority including the express words of the 
statute and decisions of the Supreme Court in HAR SWARUP AND ANOTHER PS, 
BRIJ BHUSHAN SARAN AND OTHERS (AIR 1967 Supreme Court , p . 836 ) AND 
AMIN LAL VS . HUNNA MAL ( AIR 1965 Supreme Court , page 1243 ) . That 
decision is binding on me and I respectfully follow it. 


However , Sri Choudary, the learned advocate for the election petitioner con 
tends that Smt. Vani Ramanarao is not a candidate under s . 79 (b ) of the Act , 
because ( according to Sri Choudary ) she is not duly nominated as a candidate . 
Beyond doubt or dispute . her nomination was accepted by the Returning Officer, 
and she withdrew after her nomination was 30 accepted . This is clear from the 
election petition itself But Sri Choudary contends that she was a Dholi hy casta 
and not a member of Scheduled Tribe, and therefore she could not be a du - 
nominated candidate , as only a person belonging to Scheduled Tribe can be valici, 
nominated . ( In this order , to avoid unnecessarily cumbrous language , no dis 
tinction is made between caste and scheduled tribe ). It is mentioned by the 
election petitioner in his counter that it is one of the issues in the election petition , 
whether a person belonging to Dholi caste was qualifed or not qualAed to contest 
from a Scheduled Tribe seat. He obviously refers to issue No . 1 . It relates only 
to whether the respondent is a Dholi by caste , and not a member of scheduled 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


Parr 11 


tribe. This does not cover the question whether Smt. Vani Ramanarao is a Dholi 
by caste and not a member of the Scheduled Tribe. A decision on this issue can 
validly decide only regarding the respondent and can be binding on the respon 
dent. This issue cannot be decided so as to be binding on Smt. Vani Ramanarao 
when she is not a party in this election petition . If there is to be an issue and 
Anding in the election petition proceedings to be binding on her on the question 
as to whether she is a Dholi by caste she must first be impleaded . The mere 
fact that she is the sister of the respondent may be utilised as a basis of an argu 
ment to show that, if the respondent is a Dholl and not a member of the Scheduled 
Tribe , Smt. Vani Ramanarao also must he a Dholi and cannot be a member of 
the Scheduled Tribe. But such an argument cannot be accepted as against Smt. 
Vani Ramanarao and cannot be the basis of a finding that Smt. Vani Ramanarao 
was not a validly nominated candidate or a duly nominated candidate unless Smt. 
Vani Ramanarao is a party . 


All the same Sri Balanrukunda Reddy for the respondent points out that in 
V . P . No. 933 of 1957 (6 ) Sint. Vani Ramanarao was declared to be a Koya i.eu, 
a member of the scheduled tribe. In that case the petitioner was the President 
of Scheduled Tribes Association and prayed for a writ of quo warranto contend 
ing that Smt. Vani Ramanarao who had been elected to Bhadrachalam Assembly 
constituency on the scheduled trihe seat was void . A division bench of this court 
held that Smt. Vani Ramanarao was a Koya and that the election was not void . 
Sri Balamukunda Roddy contends that this is a judgment in rem because it ad 
judicates in a matter which affects the status of Smt. Vani Ramanarao and there 
fore , it has a value even as against the election petitioner . This contention is 
acceptable . 


Sri Choudary contends that though the nomination of Smt. Vani Ramanarao 
was accepted she was not a duly nominated candidate , because in spite of her 
nomination having been accepted by the returning officer after scrutiny , the 
question whether she was a duly nominated candidate or not depends on the ques 
tion being decided in this clection petition on cvidence as to whether a Dholi is 
a member of a Scheduled Tribe . It has to be noted that section 79 ( b ) of the Act 
covers not only the person who has been duly nominated as a candidate but also 
a person who claims to have been duly nominated . The allegation in the election 
petition regarding Smt. Vani Ramanaran is that the respondent paid money to 
Smt. Vani Ramanarao , as mentioned in the election petition , which is as follows: 
" The respondent being doubtful of winning the election against her sister 

Smt. Vani Ramanarao who is a member of the Legislatlve Council 
very popular in political and official circles , occupying several places 
such as Director of Tribal Financial Corporation member of the 
Senate , member of the State Tribes Advisory Council.. . . .. ... requested 
Smt. Vani Ramanarao to withdraw from the election contest by pro 
mising her to pay the amount. .. . . ... . . " . 


The allegation in the election petition suggests that Smt. Vani Ramanarau herself 
certainly claimed to be a duly nominated candidate and must have been considered 
by the election respondent to be a duly nominated candidate . Therefore Smt. Vani 
Ramanarao is a candidate under section 79 ( b ) of the Act . In this particular 
vase , the case of the election petitioner is that the nomination of the respondent 
herself is not valid because she is a Dholl and not a member of the Scheduled 
Tribe. He has impleaded the respondent He has alleged corrupt practice against 
Smt. Vani Ramanarao and so Smt. Vani Ramanarao also has to be impleaded . 
The withdrawal by Smt. Vanl Ramenárso makes no difference to the necessity 
to implead her in view of the various decisions of the Supreme Court referred 
to by my learned brother , Kumarayya J . in his order in application Nos. 150 and 
155 of 1987 when a corrupt practice is alleged against the withdrawn candidate . 
1. therefore , reject this contention . 
CONTENTION ( C ) :- - 


It is true that the contention has been taken in application No. 166 of 1967 
which was Aled after the issues were framed but before any witness were examined . 

The fact that it was not taken up at an earlier stage or in the written statement 
of the election respondent does not affect the validity of the contention or affert 
the liability of the election petition to be dismissed under the mandatory provi 
sions of section 88 ( 1 ) of non - compliance with section 82 ( b ) . This contention is 
not tenable . 


4425 


SEC, 3 ( 17 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/BAUSA 2. 1889 


CONTENTION ( D ) ; 

Shri Choudary contends that, in ordinary civil procedure as applied to suits 
and applications, the provisions of order ] Rules 9 , 10 and 13 C . P . Ç . are available 
whereas S . 86 ( 1 ) does not allow the benefit of those provisions, that thereby S . 86 ( 1 ) 
constitutes a procedure which is unduly disadvantageous to election petitioners 
as compared to ordinary civil procedure and that, therefore it contravenes Article 
14 of the Constitution . 
Article 329 of the Constitution runs as follows:- - 

" Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution - - 


17 


( b ) no election to either House of Parliament or to the House or either 

House of the Legislature of a State shall be called in question except 
by an election petition presented to such authority and in such 
manner as may be provided for by or under any law made by the 

appropriate legislature ." .. .. .. 
The law made by the appropriate legislature in this case is contained in the 
provisions of the representation of the People Act (43 of 1951) including S . 86 ( 1 ) . 
This is the law as contemplated by the constitution . This fact is unaffected by 
the non - obstante clause in the beginning of Art . 329 . The representation of the 
people act 1951, was made under the legislative puwers vested in Parliament under 
utem 72 of list 1 of Schedule VII which runs as follows : 

" Elections to Parliament, to the Legislatures of States . . . . " 
Articles 245 and 246 rull as follows: 
" 245 ( 1 ) : Subject to the provisions of this constitution Parliament may make 

laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India .. .. . . 
" 246 ( 1 ) : Notwithstanding anything in clauses ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) Parliament has 

exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters 

enumerated in list I in the seventh schedule . .. . . 
This power to make laws is certainly subject to the Fundamental Rights contained 
in part III and in particular to Article 14 . 

IN NAIN SUKH DAS AND OTHERS vs. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 
AND OTHERS (AIR 1953 Supreme Court page 384 ) , it was observed by the Supreme 
Court as follows: (at page 385 ) 
" Now it cannot be seriously disputed that any law providing for elections 

on the basis of separate electorates for members of different religious 

communities offends against Article 15 ( 1 ) of the Constitution . 
Article 15 ( 1 ) is one of the Articles declaring fundamental rights in para III of the 
Constitution . It is clear that a law regarding elections to be valid should not 
contravene the provisions of part III of the constitution including article 14 . 

In the STATE OF WEST BENGAI, VS ANWAR ALI SARKAR AND ANOTHER 
AND HABIB MOHAMMAD AND TWO OTHERS ( INTERVENERS ) ( 1952 SCJ. 
page. 55 AIR . 1952 SC Page 75 ) it was laid down procedure which was less advan 
tageous to concerned accused than the ordinary procedure which was applicable 
to other accused in other cases was hit by Article 14 of the Constitution . It was 
held that , in as much as a certain act mentioned no basis for difference of treat 
ment prescribed in the Act (West Bengal special courts Act 1950 for trial of crimi 
nals in certain cases and for certain offences ) , it contravened article 14 . That 
act lali down substantially different rules for trial of offences and cases then laid 
down in the general law of the land . 

IN THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND ANOTHER VS. F . N . BAISARA (AIR . 1951 
Supreme Court page 318 ), certain principles were laid down regarding article 14 
as follows: - ( at page 328 ) . 
“ ( 1 ) the presumption is always in favour of the constitutionality of an enact. 

ment. 
( 3 ) The principle of equality does not mean that every law must have univer 
sal application for all persons who are not by nature attainment or circumstances 
in the same position and the varying needs of different classes of persons often 
require separate treatment. 


( 6 ) If a law deals equally with members of a weli- defined calss , it is not obnoxi. 
ous and it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground 
that it has no application to other persons." 


4726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967/PAUSA 2, 180 


[PART IT 


The above principles have been extracted in a later decision of the Supreme court 
in RAMAKRISHNA DALMIA VS , JUSTICE TENDOLKAR (AIR 1968 Supreme 
Court , page 538 ) , 

In TRUAX vs. CORRIGAN ( 66 Lawyers Edition page 254 ), the following pas 
sage has been extracted with approval from the judgment in BOWMAN vs. LEWIS 
( 25 Lawyers edition page 989 ) ( at page 265 ) . 
for as before said , it ( i. e ., the equality clause ) has respect to persons and 

classes of persons. It means that no person or class of persons shall 
be denied the same protection of the laws which is enjoyed by other 
persons or other classes in the same places and under like circums 

tances." . 
IN FRANCIS BARBIER vs . PATRICK CONNOLLY ( 28 lawyers edition page 
923 & 925 ) it was observed as follows ( at pages 924 - 925 ) . 
" The 14th Amendment - undoubtedly intended that equal protection and 

security should be given to all under like circumstances in the enjoy 
ment of their personal and civil rights ; that all persons should be 
equally entitled to pursue their happiness and acquire and enjoy pro 
perty , that they should have like access to the Courts of the Country 
for the protection of their persons and property ; the prevention of 
and redress of wrongs , and eniorcement of contracts ; that no impedi 
ment should be interposed to the pursuits of any one except as applfed 
to the same pursuits by others in like circumstances; that no greater 
fortunes should be laid upon one than are laid upon others in the 
same calling and conditions, and that in the administration of crimi 
nal justice no different or higher punishment should be imposed upon 

one than such as is prescribed to all for like offences ." 
Assuming for the sake of argument that order 1 rules 9 , 10 and 13 CPC do 
not apply to an election petition under any circumstances under the representation 
of the People Act 1951 as it now stands, the question is whether it would amount 
to a contravention of Article 14 . 

Order 1 Rules 9 , 10 and 13 C . P . C . were held applicable to election petition un 
der the representation of the People Act, 1951 as it stood in the year 1952 in 
JAGANNATH vs, JASWANT SINGH AND OTHERS ( A . I. R . 1954 Supreme Court 
page 210 ) . 

Order 1 Rules 9, 10 and 13 apply to civi) proceedings which are covered by the 
Civil Procedure Code . 


The question is whether proceedings in election petitions are so substantially 
similar to civil proceedings under the civil procedure code that S . 86 ( 1 ) , if it 
excludes the operation of order 1 rules 9 , 10 and 13 would amount to unjust dis 
crimination which is hit by Article 14 of the Constitution 

The nature of election proceedings has been dealt with in several authorita 
tive decisions. S . 86 ( 1 ) makes a provision regarding part of the procedure in elec 
tton proceedings section 87 (already extracted ) lays down that provisions of 
Civil Procedure Code are to be followed subject to the provisions of the Represen 
tation of the People Act and of any rules inade thereunder . 

In HARISH CHANDRA BAJPAI AND ANOTHER vs TRILOKI SINGH AND 
ANOTHER (AIR 1957 Supreme Court page 444 ) It has been held that the charges 
of corrupt practice are quasi criminal in character and allegation thereto must be 
sufficiently clear and precise to bring home the charges to the candidate . 

In JAGANNATH VS JASWANT SINGH AND OTHERS ( AIR 1954 S , Court 
p . 210 ) their Lordships of the Supreme Court observed as follows; (at page 212 ) . 
" The general rule is well - settled that the statutory requirements of election 

law must be strictly observed and that an election contest is not an 
action at law or a suit in equity but is purely statutory proceeding 
unknown to the common law and that the court possesses no common 
law power." 


As an election contest is not a action at law or a suit in equity and , if a court 
dealing with an election contest has no common law power , it cannot be said that 
the court should apply to an election contest a procedure which is prescribed 
for a suit in equity or an ation at law . As election contest is a purely statutory 
proceeding unknown to common law It is open to the statute to prescribe procedure 
suitable for such a proceeding and the statute is not bound to prescribe any pro 
cedure which is the same as the procedure for trial of a sult in equity , or for 


Sec . % (li) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 25, 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


1727 


dealing with a civil action at law . It is true that the trial of the election petition 
is held by the High Court but it does not necessarily follow that civil procedure 
should be followed . The High Court in dealing with civil proceedings , sits as 
a civil court and follows appropriate civil procedure . When the High Court deals 
with criminal proceedings, and sits as a criminal court, it follows the appropriate 
procedure including the criminal procedure code. When the High Court deals 
with election petition , which is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to 
common law the High Court must follow the procedure prescrihed by valid 
statute for such proceeding . 

IN JAGANNATH VS . JASWANT SINGH AND OTHERS (AIR 1954 Su , Court 
page 210 ) it has also been laid down as follows ( at page 212 ). 
" It is also well settled that it is a sound principle of natural Justice that 

the success of a candidate who has won at an election should not be 
lightly Interterred with and any petition seeking such interference 
must strictly conform to the requirements of the law . Nolie of 
these propositions however has any application if the special law 
Itselt confers authority on a Tribunal to proceed with a petition in 
accordance with certain procedure and when it does not state the 
consequences of non - compliance with certain procedural require 
ments laid down by it. . . . . . .. .... In cases where the election law does 
not prescribe the consequence or does not lay down penalty for non 
compliance with certain procedural requirements of that law the 
jurisdiction of the Tribunal entrusted with the trial of the case is 
not affected . " 


It cannot be said that the provision of $ . 86 ( 1 ) of the Act contravenes article 14 
on the alleged ground that the benefits of order 1 rules 9 , 10 and 13 of the code 
of civil procedure are not available to the election petitioner . It is open to the 
election law to make such relicſ available as was the case under the Representa 
tion of the People Act , 1951 as it stood in 1952 for non - compliance with section 82 
or to make the provisions of order 1 rules 9 , 10 and 13 not available to parties 
to an election petition . 

I find that the contention of Sri Choudary that S 86 ( 1 ) of the Act Is Ultra 
pires because it contravener article 14 of the Constitution is not tenable and 
cannot be accepted . 

Objections similar to in application no . 166 of 1967 praying for the same 
rellef were also raised in the other election petitions as follows: 

( 1 ) application No 169 of 1967 in E .P 13 /67; and 

( 2 ) application No. 178 of 1967 in E .P . 6 / 67. 
In those petitions certain contentions other than those argued by Shri P . A . 
Choudary , which I have discussed already in these petitions , were raised and 
argued Sri Choudary adopts thosc contentions also . Those contentions have been 
dealt with by me in application Nos . 169 of 1967 and 178 of 1967 and rejected 
by me as not sufficient ground for refusing the relief asked for in the petition 
to dismiss the election petition concerned . I, therefore, And no need to discuss 
them in these petitions separately or to repeat what I have stated about those 
contentions in those respective applications. I hold that the contentions raised 
by Shri P A Choudary and actually argued before me are not tenable . 

I respectfully follow the decision of my learned brother, Kumarayya , J. in 
Application Nos . 150 and 155 of 1967 and hold that election petition No. 5 of 
1967 suffers from defect of non - compliance of section 82 (b ) of the act for failure 
to implead Smt. Vani Ramanarao as & party , though the allegation of corrupt 
practice is made against her and therefore has to be dismissed under $ . 86 ( 1 ) 
of the Act. 

But, before finally disposing of application No. 186 of 1967 the other twa 
applications have also got to be considered . 
APPLICATIONS NOS. 197 AND 198 OF 1967: 

As already polnted out application No . 197 of 1967 is to implead Smt Vanl 
Ramanarao as party — respondent to E . P . No. 5 of 1987 and application No. 198 
of 1987 is to excuse the delay in filing application No . 197 of 1987 , 


The order made by my learned brother, Kumarayya , J . in application Nos. 150 . 
and 155 of 1967 that the application for impleading a withdrawn candidate with 


A728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART II 


a view to cure the defect of non - compliance in the original election petition of 
S . 82 (b ) cannot be allowed , is binding on me. Application No. 192 of 1967 
petition for excusing of delay , cannot be allowed because , in any case , the relief 
sought for in Application No. 197 of 1967 by way of impleading the party cannot 
be granted , on the principle laid down in SHAMLAL TAKAR DASS AGGARWAL 
VS . PUNJAB NATAIONAL BANK LTD . AND OTHERS (AIR . 1960 Punjab page 
370 ) . 

I, therefore , dismiss application Nos. 197 and 198 of 1867 . 

I allow application No. 166 of 1967. I dismiss Election Petition No . 5 of 1967 
with costs ; Advocate s fee Rs. 200 / - ( two hundred only ) . 
Io cach of the applications, I direct party to bear his or her own costs . 

(Sd .) V . KRISHNASWAMY, 

Dy. Registrar . 

[No. 82 / AP / 5 /67. ] 
New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 
S . O . 4470 In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act . 1951. the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order , pronounced on 
the 27th September , 1967, by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay . Nagpur 
Bench , Nagpur, In Election Petition No. 16 of 1967 . 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT BOMBAY, NAGPUR BENCH , 

NAGPUR 


ELECTION PETITION No . 16 OF 1967 
Ramprasad S / o Urkuda Baryekar and another - Petitioners 

Versus 
Sri Ashok Ranjitran Mehta - Respondent. 
In the matter of Election Petition Under Section 81 of the Representation of 
the People Act , 1951 No. 43 of 1951) . 

M / s. A . S . Bobde and S . G . Kukdey Advs- for the petitioners 
M / s. B , A . Masodkar , T . L . Junakar and N . N . Deshpande, Advs. for the 

Tespondent. 
None for the Attorney General ( though served ) . 

(GORAM : — L . M . PARANJPE , J.) 

27th Sept. 1967. 


JUDGMENT 


The petitioners , claiming to be electors, are questioning the election of the 
respondent, Shri Ashok Mehta , to the Parliament from the Bhandara Parlia 
mentary Constituency , on the ground that he was disqualified for being chosen 
As a Member of Parliament as being a holder of office of profit under the Govern 
ment. 


Under orders of the Election Commission of India , the General Elections to 
the Parliament were held in February 1967 . The respondent was one of the 
candidates for the election . As a result of the counting of votes , the Returning 
Officer declared on 26th February 1967 that the respondent, who had received 
the largest number of valid votes , was elected from that Constituency . 


This election petition was based on the following allegations: The petitioners 
werc electors enrolled in the lectoral rolls of the Constituency and were there 
. fore entitled to question the election . The respondent, who was a Minister , was 

holding an office of profit under the Government as a Member and Deputy 
, Chairman of the Planning Commission . Under Section 3 ( a ) of the Parliament 

( Prevention of DisquallAcation ) Act , 1959 (No. 10 of 1959 ) , It was declared that 
an office , in so far as it is an office of proft under the Government of India 
held by a Minister for the Union , whether ex -officio or by name, would not dis 
qualify the holder thereof tor being chosen as a Member of Parllament. This 
Provision , in effect and substance, entitles a person to carry with him the power 


Sec. 3(il)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4729 


to remove the disqualification of an office which he chooses to occupy, and there 
tore this sub - section was in excess of the legislative competence conferred under 
article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution of India , which permits the Parliament to 
legislate in respect of an office cor removing the disqualification of the holder. 
That provision does not contemplate leaving it to the holder to remove the dis 
qualification of the office he may choose to occupy . This section 3 ( a ) of the 
Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification ) Act being ultra vires of the powers 
of the Legislature, the disqualification carned by the respondent as holder of an 
office of proft under the Government remains, and therefore his election is liable 
to the declared void under section 100 ( 1 ) ( u ) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951. 

The petition was challenged by the respondent on the basis of the following 
averments in his return and his affidavits in answer to interrogatories 

The claim of the petitioners that they were electors who werç entitled to 
quesion the election was denied . The respondent was not holding on the cate 
of election or even prior thereto , an office of proft which would entail a cisquall 
fication for being chosen as a Member of Parliament under article 102 of the 
Constitution of India . He was never a Member of the Planning Commission 
and drew no salary or allowances as such Member. He was directly appointed 
Its Deputy Chairman with effcct from 2nd December 1963 and was getting a 
salary of Rs. 2 ,250 / - in that capacity and other Lenefits carried by the post, but 
he was relinquishing a part of his monthly salary by voluntary surrender as 
detailed in the table annexed to the affidavit . On his appointment as a Minister 
of the Union , he resigned the salaricd post of the Deputy Chairman of the Plan 
ning Commission , thereby ceasing to get such salary or benefits of that post and 
began to get salary and allowances only under the Salaries and Allowances of 
Ministers Act , 1952 After resigning his full time post of Deputy Chairman of 
the Planning Commission which carried a salary and allowances, he took over 
in the same afternoon as Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission in his 
capacity as a Minister of the Union Government. This additional post of Deputy 
Chairman did not carry any salary or allowances and did not entitle him to get 
such salary or allowances . Under section 3 ( 9 ) of the Parliament ( Prevention of 
Disqualification ) Act, 1959 , it was declared that the office , in so far as it was an 
office or profit under the Government held by him as a Minister , whether ex -officio 
or by name, shall not disqualify him from being chosen as a Member of Parlia 
ment. This provision was not uttru vires of the powers of the Paliament but was 
within the powers given to it under article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution . He 
was therefore oot disqualifled for being chosen as a Member of Parliament. The 
petition has been filed for extraneous and is wholly mala fide , 11 was not 
filed or presented in accordance with law and was liable to le dismissed for that 
reason 

On these pleadings , the following issues were framcd and nảy findings thereon 
Are stated opposite . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Issues 


Findings 


They have not prove it. 


Do the petitioners proved that they are 
entitled to challenge the election of the 
respondent as being electors in the 
Bhandara Parliamentary Constituency 
for the General Elections held in 1967, 
within the meaning of scction 2 ( e ) of 
the Representation of the People Act , 
1951 ? 
( a ) Do the petitioners prove that the 
respondent was holding an Office of 
proft under the Government of India 
as being a Member oť the Planning 
Commission ? 
(b ) Do the petitioners prove that the 
respondent was holding an office of 
profit under the Government of India 
on the date of election as the Deputy 
Chairman of the Planning Commission ? 
( c ) Does the respondent prove that he 
was holding the office of the Deputy 
Chairman of the Planning Commission 


He was not proved to be a Mem 

ber of the Planning Commis 
sion 


Not proved 


Yos, Respondent has proved it 


4710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART 1 ] 


- 


- - 


Issues 


Findings 


Not proved . 


in his capacity as the Minister of Flan 
ning , and therefore he was not dis 

qualified from contesting the election ? 
3 Do the petitioners prove that the res 

pondent s election is liable to be declar 
ed void under clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 100 of the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951, read with arti 
cle 103 ( 1) of the Constitution ? 
Does the respondent prove that the 
petition is vexatious and false to the 

knowledge of the petitioners? 
5 . Relief and costs ? 


Vaxatlous but not false 


Petition dismissed with costs. 


Reasons for the findings 
Before going to the merits of the case , I would first consider the preliminary 
objection raised on behalf of the respondent with regard to the jurisdiction of 
the Court to entertain and decide the petition or to adjudicate on the claim 
that a provision of the Parliament (Prevention of Disqualifcation ) Act, 1959, 
hereinafter referred to as the Act No. 10 of 1959, was ultra vires. His conten 
tion , briefly stated , was as follows: 

The petitioners were claiming a declaration that the election of the respondent 
was void under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 100 of the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) read with article 102 
of the Constitution . In order to succeed , it was necessary for the petitioners to 
satisfy the Court in terms of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 100 that 
on the date of the clection , the respondent was disqualified to be chosen to All 
the seat under article 102 of the Constitution as he was holding an office of proft. 
Under article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution , the disqualification of a person for 
being chosen a meinber of either House of Parliament arises " it he holds any 
office of proflt under the Government of India or the Government of any State , 
other than an office declared by Parliament by law not to disyualliy its holder " . 
The Parliament had enacted the law , namely . Act No . 10 of 1959, and section 
3 ( a ) thereof declared that an oflice held by a Minister , whether ex officio or by 
name, shall not disqualify the holder there for being chosen as a member of 
Parliament. The office of Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission held 
by the respondent was thus covered by this section 3 ( a ) which was enacted under 
the powers given to the Parliament by the later half of clause ( a ) of article 102 
of the Constitution and consequently on the facts of the case and the averments 
in the petition , the respondent did not hold any office of proft which would 
have disqualified him from being chosen as a Member of Parliament. In view 
of this position and in the absence of any averment that the post was not un 
office of profit under the Constitution , no question of any disqualifcation of the 
respondent which could attract section 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act arose , and therefore 
the Election Tribunal had no jurisdiction to proceed with the petition which does 
not make out a case that the office held ny the respondent was other than an 
office declared by Parliament hy law not to disqualify its holder Though ordi 
narily this Court had jurisdiction to go into the question of the vircs of a legis 
lation , such a question could not be allowed to be agitated in this election petition 
which itself was untenable because of absence of material averments as per 
article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution . The Court therefore had no Jurisdiction 
to proceed with the decision of the election petition or the questini of the vires 
of section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 of 1959 . 

While not disputing that the petition did not contain several material aser 
ments on the point raised by Mr, Masodkar , Mr. Bobde contested the objection on 
the following grounds : The petitioners had complied with the first part of sub 
clause ( a ) of clause ( 1 ) of article 102 of the Constitution , by plcading that the 
respondent was holding an office of profit under the Government of India . That 
office does not come within the exceptions carved out by the latter part of that 
sub - clause, because there was no law which excepts the respondent from being 
disqualified under the first part of that sub - clause . It was sufficient for the peti 
tioners to plead the material fact that the respondent was holding an office of 
profit under the Government of India within the meaning of the first part of sub 
clause ( a ) , and if the respondent claimed to come within the exception carved 
out under the latter hall of that sub - clause , by section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 of 1959 
It was for the respondent to plead the exception as was done in the present case . 


Srr . 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967 / PAUSA ?, 18894731 


Ilaving shown under the first part oť sub - clause ( a ) that the respondent was dis 
qualified under the Constitution , it was not necessary for the petitioners to further 
plead that the office held by the respondent was also covered by the latter half 
of that sub - clause . It was not necessary for the petitioner to make negative plead 
ings on the point. Despite the omission of the petitioners to plead the relevant facts , 
the respondent had raised no objection to the maintainability of the petition in 
his written statement and had gone to trial on the averments as they were made. 
The objection could not therefore be raised at this stage. Once the respondent 
set up the provision of law purporting to fall under the latter half of sub - clause 
( a ) of clause ( 1 ) of artic c 102 of the constitution , the petitioners were justified in 

laiming that the said provision in Act No. 10 of 1959 was ultra vires of the powers 
of the Parliament and therefore it was not a law within the meaning of that latter 
part of the sub -clause , though the mend .nent might have been belated , the 
respondent had accepted the adjournment costs which were saddled as a condi 
tion precedent for allowing the amendment and it was not now open to him to 
contend that the original petition or the petition as amended did not comply with 
the requirements of section 81 read with section 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act . Even if 
the petitioners were to tail on merits, that would be no ground for saying that the 
petition itself was incompetent or that this Court had no jurisdiction either to 
entertain the petition or to go into the question of the vires of section 3 ( a ) of Act 
No. 10 of 1959. 


There is some force in the contention of Mr. Masodkar that the petition as 
originally drafted suffered for want of several material facts . It cannot also be 
denied that the petition was wanting in several other particulars and material 
facts which were relevant and important for deciding the case . Even so, the res 
pondent did not raise any objection on the ground of the tenability of the petition 
because of want of these pleadings, and treated the petition as having been validly 
macle to this Court . I do not think that it would be proper or just to entertain 
or to uphold these technical objections at such a late stage , Justice ought not to 
te denied or defcated merely because of failure to raise certain points . particular 
ly when that failure was not challenged at any carlier stage . After the return of 
the respondent came on record , the petitioners were allowed to amend the peti 
tion hy raising the ground that Art No. 10 of 1959 yas ultra rites of the powers 
of Par iament, and therefore thie respondent was not entitled to invoke the latter 
hall of sub -clause ( a ) of clause ( 1 ) of article 102. The respondent has admit 
teddy recovered costs which were saddled as a condition precedant for making the 
amendment and has thus acquiesced in the aniendment which , having beer allow 
en , must relate back to the date of the presentation of the petition itself. Having 
done it, I do not think that it was now open to the respondent to challenge the 
maintainability of the petition for want of proper averments . That amendment 
has now become binding on the respondent, and in that view , he cannot be allow 
ed to urge that the election petition itself was incompetent or that Court had no 
jurisdiction to decide the question of the vires of section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 of 
1959, which would go to the root of the maintainability of the petition . The inere 
fact that the petitioners are not succeeding in their challenge to the vires of that 
provision of Act No. 10 of 1959 would not have the effect of making the petition 
itself incompetent. Under these circumstances . the preliminary objection must 
stand rejected , 


Issue No. 1. - Mr. Bobde, advocate for the petitioner did not dispute that the 
burden was on the petitioners to prove this issue that they were entitled to chal 
lenge the clection of the respondent as being electors within the meaning of Sec 
tion 2 ( a ) of the Act . The petitioner No . 1 , Ramprasad ( P . W . 1 ) , was the only 
witness examined for proving this issue . He deposed that he was enrolled as an 
elector from the Tursar Assembly Constituency No. 131 which forms parts of the 
Bhandara Parliamentary Constituency and his name was recorded at serial No. 
614 on page 7 of the copy of the electoral roll ( Ex . 24 ) . He also deposed that he 
had exercised his frachise in the last General Elections held on 18th February , 
1967. Under section 81 of the Act, an election petition calling in question any 
election may be presented by any candidate at such election or by an elector. 
Sub - section ( 1 ) of section 62 provides that no person who is not, and except as 
cxpressly provided by the Act , every person who is , for the time being entered 
in the electoral roll of any constituency shall be entitled to vote in that consii 
tuency . Section 2 ( A ) defines an elector as " a person whose name is entered in 
the electoral roll of that constituency for the time belng In force and who is not 
subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 10 of the Representa 
tion of the People Act, 1950. Thus the order to support his claim that he is an 
elcctor, it was necessary for the petitioner , Ramprasad ( P . W . 1 ) , to prove that 


4732 


TJIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[ PART II – 


F 


his name was duly entered in the electoral roll of the constituency which was in 
force at the time of the election , 


In this connection , a reference to rules 32 and 33 of the Registration of Electors 
Rules, 1960 , would be useful. Rule 32 provides that after the roll for a consti 
tuency has been finally published , one complete copy of the roll shall be main 
tained at the office of the registration officer . Rule 33 provides that every personi 
shall have the right to inspect the complete copy of the electoral roll and other 
papers referred to in rule 32 and to get attestet copies thereof on payment of the 
prescribed fees . 


In order to support his contention that his naine was so entered in the finally 
published clectoral roll, the petitioners should have obtained and filled an attested 
copy of the relevant portion of that roll. However, that was not done. Instead , 
the petitioner Ramprasad filed Ex , 24 which purports to be a part of the electoral 
roll which was preīiminarily published . It was not disputed that after such prell 
minary publications, people had a right to claim that a name may be included in 
the roll or may be deleted therefrom for stated reasons. Therefore , this preli 
minary copy of the roll (Ex . 24 ) which was published on 1st January , 1966 , can 
not be treated as a copy of the final roll which was in force on the date of elec 
tion . Moreover , this copy, though purporting to hear the ſuscinile signature 
of the Registration Officer , is not an attested copy within the meaning of rule 33 
of the Registration of Electors Rules 1960 . The petitioner Ramprasad ( P . W . 1 ) , 
stated that this copy was given to him by Mr. Kumbhare advocate , prior to the 
election . It has to be noted that Mr. Kumbhare was a contesting candidate who liad 
fought the election against the respondent. In fact , the petitioners were first 
ti ying to put Mr. Kumbhare in the witness box for introducing this uncertified 
and unauthorised copy but had to refrain from doing it on an objection being 
raised on behalf of the respondent that the name of Mr. Kumbhare was not stated 
in the list of witnesses The cross - examination of this petitioner , Ramprasad 
( P . W . 1 ) , showed that he did not and could not have any interest in the matter 
of this election petition and the petitioners obviously appear to have been used 
by some persons as tools for questioning the election of the respondent. Even Mr. 
Bobde , advocates for the petitioners , could not deny that the copy , (Ex . 24 ) , could 
not be admitted on record and could not be said to provide a proper proof of the 
petitioner s name being entered in the Anal electoral roll which was in force on 
the date of election . 


The contention of Mr. Bobde however was that the entries in the final clectoral 
roll should be deemed to have been proved by the oral evidence of Ramprasad 
( P . W . 1 ) . He was not in a position to substantiate or support that contention . 
The contents of a document cannot be proved by oral evidence and the original 
or an authenticated copy thereof ought to be on record but that had admittedly 
not been done. The Registration Officer or the Returning Officer could have been 
summoned with the original electoral roll but that also was not done. The oral 
statement of the petitioner Ramprasad , that his name was included in the floal 
electoral roll cannot be accepted , particularly in view of his own stand that he 
was making the statement on the basis of the unauthorised copy of the preli 
ninary electoral roll ( and not the final roll ) which he had filed as Ex . 24 . 


While not disputing that the petitioners had not substantiated their claim on 
this point, Mr. Bobde made two other submissions which connot possibly be 
accepted . The first was that the petitioners should now be given a chance after 
they had closed their case to summon the Returning Oficer or the Electoral Regis 
tration Oncer with the Anal copy of the electoral roll. The issues were framid 
as far back as on 7th August , 1967. The petitioners had ample time to cite and 
summon the relevant witnesses , but that was not done , it was specifically stated 
by their counsel that they would only examine the petitioners and no other wit 
nesses . The petitioners were thus ambling with the possibility of licceeding on 
this scanty material, and having failed in that gamble , they cannot now be 
allowed to urge that they should be given one more chance at this stage to reopen 
the case and to adduce the requisite evidence . Litigants are expected to be 
diligent in all litigations, and particularly so , in election petitions. The cross 
examination of Ramprasad ( P . W . 1 ) showed that he had taken no steps whatso 
ever to obtain the requisite documents or to apply for a certified copy of the elec 
toral roll. Litigants , who have been so culpably negligent in the matter , of con 
ducting their litigations, cannot claim the indulgence of being granted a chance at 
such a late stage to adduce proof in support of their claim . This prayer must 
stand rejected . 


Sec. 3 ( 11)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA . 1889 


The second point raised by Mr. Bombde in this connection was that the claim 
of the petitioner No. 1 Ramprasad that he had exercised his franchise at the elec 
tion was not subjected to any cross - examination and therefore must be accepted . 
Ile could not have been allowed to excrcise his franchise without his name Teing 
entered in the final electoral roll, and therefore, it should be inferred in his favour 
that his name was and must have been included in the final electoral roll. The 
Explanation to section 81 of the Act shows han an elector means a person who is 
entitled to vote at the election to which the election petition relates , whether he 
has votrd at such clection or not. Therefore, the claim that he had voted at the 
election was neither here nor there . Moreover , the possibility of an elector casting 
his vote for or in the name of someone else, though his own name may not be in 
the electoral roll cannot be altogether ignored . I would pertinently point out 
that while framing issue No. 1 I had specifically referred to the definition of an 
elector in section 2 ( c ) of the Act, and therefore the petitioners nlust be deemed 
to have knowledge of the necessity of obtaining and Alirig a copy of the electoral 
roll, but that had not been done , 


Mr. Bobde was thicn contending that even though the copy ( Ex , 24 ) was not 
authenticated as required by rule 33 of the Registration of Elector s Rules , 1960 , 
it was a minor defect and the evidence of the petitioner, Ramprasad , on the point 
should be accepted . I have already shown that this copy , whatever may be its 
value, is not of thc final electoral roll but is a copy of the preliminary electoral 
roll as the note at the bottom of that copy would show . The matter of adducing 
proper proof that a person is an elector whose name is in the final clectoral roll 
is not a formality but is a question of great substance . In Ranjit Singh v . Pritam 
Singh ( A . I. R . 1966 S . C . 1626 ) the scheme of registration of electoral rolls was 
explained and it was pointed out that copy produced should by itseli show that 
the candidate is qualified or not and the production of an incomplete copy of an 
electoral roll was a defect of a substantial character . The present case in hand 
stands on a worse footing , because the copy 1$ root proved to be authentic 
Consequently , this is not a formal defect as claimed by Mr. Bobde and the 
petitioners must thank themselves for their failure to adduce the requisite 
proof of their right to file the election petition . 


As adumbrated the petitioner No. 1 , Ramprasad, has not proved that he was 
an elector within the meaning of section 2 ( e ) of the Act, so as to entitle him to 
file this election petition under section 81. No evidence , whatsoever was led to 
prove that the petitioner No. 2 was an elector, and the Icarned advocates for 
the petitioners stated at the bar that they were not going to adduce any proof 
with regard to the right of the petitioner No. 2 to Ale this election petition , The 
net result therefore was that the petitioners had failed to prove that they were 
elcators within the meaning of section 3 ( e ) of the Act, who could havc filed 
this election petition . Consequently , the election petition will have to stand 
dismissed on the ground that the petitioners have not proved that they were 
entitled to file this election petition . I find accordingly . 

Issue No. 2 ( a ) and ( b ) . - Beyond making a bland assertion that the respon 
dent was holding an office of profit under the Government of India as a Mem 
ber and Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission , the petitioners gave 
no further particulars regarding when the respondent was appointed a Mem . 
ber , as also the Deputy Chairman , of Planning Commission ; who had appointed 
him ; what was the proflt that he was to get from these alleged offices ; whether 
he was removable by the Government of India or by some other authority ; 
what authority could take disciplinary action against him ; and from what 
scurce his salary was to flow . It was indeed surprising that the petition should 
have been filed without raising any pleas on these and other incidental inatters 
which were very material for deciding the claim that the respondent was hold 
ing an office of profit under the Government of India . I should have expected 
the respondent to ask for these particulars , but the himself came forth to make 
a full statement on the allegations without there being any particulars . He 
stated in his return and in the affidavits that the he was never appointed a 
Member of the Planning Commission but was directly appointed ito Deputy 
Chairman on 2nd December 1963 and held that post till he relinquished it on 
24th January 1986 on his appointment as the Minister of Planning in the Central 
Cabinet . He had further stated that on such relinquishment of his paid charge 
or Deputy Chairman , the Prime Minister appointed him , in his capacity as the 
Minister of Planning, also to act as the Deputy Chairman , but he neither re 
ceived nor was he entitled to receive any remuneration for the work or charge 
of the office of Deputy Chairman which he was holding from 24th January 
1966 as the Minister of Planning . Even after this return and the affidavits in 
answer to the interrogatories were flled by the respondent, the petitioners took 


1724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 4 , 1889 


PART II 


no steps to amend their petition by pleading that even after ceasing to be the 
paid Deputy Chairman , he still continued to be a Member of the Planning 
Commission , or that he was getting or was entitled to get any profit out of 
that office which he was concurrently holding while being the Minister of 
Planning . If that was the case of the petitioner as WHS urged before me in 
the course of arguments , I should have expected the petitioners to amend their 
petition , so that the questions arising therefrom could have been put injegue 
and the parties could have led evidence thereon , Surprisingly , however, the 
petitioners , who are handling this petition in a cavalier like fashion , took no 
steps whatsoever to set out or plead their case or to give further and additional 
particulars. No explanation for the omission was forthcoming , 

While accepting the position that the petition was defective on these grounds, 
Mr. Bobde raised two points . One was that the petitioners could not have 
knowledge about the orders passed by the Planning Commission or the Central 
Government with regard to the Members and Deputy Chairman of the Plan 
ning Commission , and therefore they could not be blamed for not raising these 
points. That contention cannot stand any scrutiny . As the documents produced 
by the respondent would show , orders of appointment of Members and office 
bearers of the Planning Commission were issued by the Cabinet Secretariat and 
were published in the Government of India Gazette , Part I, Section 2 . If they 
were serious on the point, the petitioners could have taken a thorough inspection 
of all the Government of India Gazettes , which would easily have been avail 
able to them , at least in the library of this Court . Nothing of that sort was 
however done, and I am not prepared to accept the claim that the petitioners 
could not have possibly found out the real facts , 

The aforesaid contention of Mr. Bobde stood negatived by his next contention 
that in the interest of justice , the petitioners should now be allowed a chance to 
amend their petition by giving all these particulars and by leading evidence in 
support thereof. What the petitioners can now do could as well have been done 
by them in good time if they were serious in the matter . The cross -examination 
of Ramprasad ( P . W . 1 ) shows that he is a petty labourer who is indebted and 
who has no interest whatsoever in the matter or prosecuting the petition . He 
did not even know what post the respondent was holding and slated in his evi 
dence that according to him , the respondent was an official of the Finance De 
partment either as a Member or Chairman and getting a salary for that work . 
Mr. Bobde was not in a position to support his prayer for enalling the peti 
tioners to wake up now and to start getting information and then incorporat 
ing it in the petition , with a view to lead further evidence . As I remarked 
earlier , litigants , who are so culpably negligent in the matter of conducting their 
cases , cannot be allowed to have a second round of fight on the abstract grounds 
of interests of justice . Justice has to be done according to low , and when the 
petitioners have failed to take the steps which the law required them to do. 
they cannot now be allowed to say that they should be granted a chance for 
having a second round of fight with the respondent. This request is entirely 
intenable and must stand rejected . 


I 


Mr. Bobde then took me through the return and the affidavits filed by the 
Jespondent and the documents produced on his behalf for substantiating his con 
tention that the respondent must have first been appointed a Member of the 
Planning Commission before he was appointed its Deputy Chairman and 
tliat the relinquishment of his charge as Deputy Chairman would still 
have the effect of his continuing as a Member and he would be entitled to get 
salary and profit from this notional post of a Member or the additional post of 
Deputy Chairman which he was holding in addition to the post of Minister of 
Planning . He wanted to support these contentions on the basis of certain 
statements in the affidavit of the respondent that the Deputy Chairman was 
appointed either from private Members or from Ministers, and that the Mem 
bers were entitled to salary . He also relied on the documents produced by 
the respondent to urge that the salary which the respondent claimed to have 
obtained while working as the Deputy Chairman till 24th January 1966 was 
and could be only as a Member . His arguments no doubt evinced an enor 
mous amount of labour and industry on his part, but it would not be possible 
to accept or consider them for the simple reason that the petitioners had plead 
edł no case on the point. The logical conclusion of his arguments was that 
though the petitioners had pleaded nothing , a case could be made out for 
them from the return of the respondent, and the burden was not on the 
petitioners but on the respondent to establish that he was not holding An office 
of profit. Both these positions were entirely untenable and unsupportable , and 
Mr. Bobde did not dispute that the mere fact that some loose language may 
have been used in the return and the affidavits of the respondent or in the 


SEC. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967/ PAUSA , 2 , 1889 


4785 


orders given to the Accountant General Central Revenues , New Delhi, with 
regard to the salary of the Members of the Planning Commission , would not 
have the effect of making out for the petitioners a case which they had never 
pleaded 

In Deorao v . Keshav ( A . I. R . 1958 Bombay 314 ) the tests to be satisfied for 
proving that a person was holding an office of profit were laid down. The 
principal tests mentioned were : ( i ) what authority has the power to make 
an appointment to the office concerned , ( ii ) what authority can take discipli 
nary action and remove or dismiss the holder of the office , and ( iii ) by whom 
and from what source is his remuneration paid . Mr. Bobde was only relying 
on the obseryation that the third test regarding the source of remuneration 
was less important, but that did not mean that the other two tests were nega 
tived or that the third test was non - existent. Ag adumbrated, the petitioners 
have neither pleaded nor proved any facts which would go to show that the 
respondent was holding an office of profit either as a Member or Deputy Chair 
man of the Planning Commission , or that the office was under the Government 
of India , In this connection , Mr. Bobde made certain comments on the res 
pondent with reference to his statements in the return and the affidavits , as 
also the documents produced by him . I am afraid , that criticism was not justi 
fied . The learned advocate for the respondent had specifically offered to put 
the respondent in the witness -box if the petitioners desired to cross - examine 
him , but the learned advocate for the petitioners had stated that they did not 
want to cross - examine the respondent. Having denied that opportunity to 
CTOSS - cxamine him the criticism levelled against him was not fair or justified . 
In the absence of pleadings and proof on the side of the petitioners and with 
the return , and particularly the affidavits of the respondent, remaining unre 
butted , the conclusion must be incvitable that the respondent was not a Mem 
ber of the Planning Commission at any time and did not remain or continue 
to be a Member on his relinquishment of the salaried post of Deputy Chairman 
from 24th January 1966 and that he was not getting and was not entitled to 
get any profit from the post of Deputy Chairman which he was holding in his 
capacity as the Minister of Planning from 24th January 1966 and on the date 
of election , I find accordingly . 
Issue No. 2 (c ) : Section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 of 1959 is in the following words: 
" It is hereby declared that none of the following offices, in so far as it 

is an office of profit under the Government of India or the Gov 
ernment of any State , shall disqualify the holder thereof for being 

chosen as, or for being, a meniber of Parliament , namely : 
(a ) any office held by a Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister 

for the Union or for any State , whether ex -officio or by name: 


The notifications dated 31st January and 11th February 1960 produced by the 
respondent show that the respondent relinquished his charge of the salaried 
office of Deputy Chairman on 24th January 1966 and on the same day he took 
over charge also as Deputy Chairman on his appointment to that post in his 
capacity as the Minister of Planning . Paragraph 3 of the letter dated 21st May 
1953 from the Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Planning 
Commission , to the Accountant General, Central Revenues , New Delhi, shows 
that Minister Members or Minister Deputy Chairman were not entitled to get 
any salaries when they held such posts while being Ministers . That was 
obviously because the Ministers were getting their salaries under the Salaries 
and Allowances of Minister s Act, 1952. The aforesaid documents would show 
that while holding the post of Deputy Chairman as a Minister, the respondent 
was not entitled to get any profit or salary ; and even if he was to get any 
profit or salary , that post of Deputy Chairman held by him by name, as also 
ex - officio , would not result in a disqualification under Article 102 of the Consti 
tution because of the provisions of section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 of 1959. It will 
therefore have to be held that the respondent was holding the office of Deputy 
Chairman of the Planning Conimission from 24th January 1966 in his capacity 
as the Minister of Planning and therefore he was not disqualified from contest 
ing the election , I find accordingly . 

That would take me to the question of the vires of section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 
of 1959. The contention of Mr. Bobde in this connection was as follows: 
Section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 of 1959 is ultra vires of article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 
Constitution and is void in so far as it purports to remove the disqualification 
attaching to any and every office held by a Minister , not only ex -officio but 
also by name. The incidence and effect of the provision is that whenever a 
particular person holds any office , known or unknown , the person himself 


4736 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


removes the disqualification of all such offices not only by fortuitous circum 
stance that he happens to be also a Minister but further that he occupies the 
office by name. Thus, such a person in effect and substance carries with him 
the power to remove the disqualification of an office which he chooses to occupy . 
The said sub - section 3 ( a ) of Act No. 10 of 1959 is therefore in excess of the 
legislative competence conferred under article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution 
which permits the Parliament to legislate only in respect of an once for 
removing the disqualification to the holder, and docs not contemplate leaving 
it to the holder to remove the disqualification of the offices he may choose to 
occupy . Mr. Masodkar , advocate for the respondent, contended that these sub 
missions were unwarranted . 

The basic assumption of Mr. Bobde that the person himself removes the 
disqualification of offices held by him as a Minister, as also by name, is not 
warranted . He is also not right in assuming that the person , in effect and in 
substance , carries with him the power to remove the disqualifcation of an 
office . In the first half of sub - clause ( EL) of clause ( 1 ) of article 102 of the 
Constitution , a person is disqualified for being chosen as a Member of Parlia 
ment if he holds any office of profit. The latter half of that sub - clause limits 
the generality of the expression " any office of profit" in the first half by the 
clause " other than an office declared by Parliament by law nal to disqualify its 
holder " . There is no limitation imposed on the powers of the Parliament to 
pass an Act with regaard to declaring by law that an office would not disqualify 
its holder . This unlimited and wide power has been given to tlie Parliament 
under the Constitution itself and therefore Mr. Bobde was not right in saying 
that the Parliament acted in excess of the power given to it. When the power 
was unlimited and untrammelled and was subject only to the discretion of the 
Parliament itself, there was no force in the contention that the Parliament had 
excecded its powers in enacting clause ( a ) of section 3 of the Act No. 10 of 
1959, 

The second assumption of Mr. Bobde that the power to remove the disqualif 
cation of his office is wasted in the officer or official or that officer or official 
carries with him the power to remove the disqualification of the office which he 
chooses to occupy is again unwarranted . By this provision it is not left to the 
individual to decide to which office held by him the disqualification should attach 
or not. The Parllament has made a wide provision that none of the offices, in so 
far as they are affices of profit under the Government of India shall disqualify the 
holder thereof for being chosen as a Member of Parliament if the office is held by 
a Minister either ex - officio or by name. It is not the choice of an individual to 
hold a particular office , and at any rate , thre is nothing on the record of this case 
to show that the respondent had chosen to occupy this office by his own volition . 
On the contrary , the record discloses that the office was imposed on him by the 
order of the Prime Minister who had appointed him to be the Deputy Chairman 
of the Planning Commission . In view of that fact, there would be no question 
of saying that he had chosen to occupy that office of Deputy Chairman by his own 
volition or that he has carried with him the power to remove the disqualificatio .. . 
The disqualification stands removed by the Parliamentary enactment and not by 
the voluntary choice of the individual Minister who happens to hold a particular 
office of profit , whether ex officio or by name, in addition to his office of Minister . 
The Parliament had purported to act under the power given to it by the latter 
half of sub - clause ( a ) of clause ( 1 ) of article 102 of the Constitution by declaring 
in respect of an office that the disqualification , otherwise attaching thereto , shall 
not attach if the office is held by a Minister , whether ex officio or by name, Mr. 
Bobde was not in a position to substantiate his contention that the Parliament had 
enacted that provision in excess of the legislative competence conferred upon it 
by article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution . 

Mr. Bobde was then trying to raise several other grounds for saying that the . 
provision was utita vires of the powers of the Parliament, but none of them were : 
raised by him till now and obviously he could not be permitted to raise these new 
grounds of which the other side had no notice . If the petitioners wanted to raise 
these grounds, there was nothing to prevent them from incorporating those grounds 
In the amendment to the petition . One such ground was that the Parliament had 
not applied its mind . In the Arst place , it is not open to the Court to inquire 
in what manner the Parliament has applied its mind to the question and it would 
not be permissible to examine the proceedings of the Parliament to find out in 
what manncr the enactment was passed . Presumably , the Parliament knows 
what are the duties of the Ministers and what other offices of profit they are likely 
to hold , either er officio or by name. They have made this very wide enactment 
to cover all such ofices, and Mr. Bobdę was not right to assuming that the Pariia 
ment had done it without applying its mind to the questions involved therein , 


Sec . %(ii)] 


3HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4737 


Mr. Bobde has not shown any satisfactory reason or ground for upholding his 
" ontention that the provision was ultra vires of the powers of the Parliament under 
article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) . I may mention that this question of the vires of that 
provision wou d not fall for determination in the present case because of the 
failure of the petitioners to establish their basic assumptions that the office of 
Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission , which the respondent was hold 
ing as the Minister of Planning on the date of election , was an office of profit or 
was an office of profit under the Government of India . I find that the provision 

in section 3 ( a ) of Act No . 10 of 1959 is not ultra vites or the powers of the Parlia 
ment, and the respondent has proved that even if the office which he was holding 
was an office of profit under the Government, he was not disqualified from con 
testing the election in view of the provision of section 3 ( a ) of Act No . 10 of 
1959 . 


Issue No. 4 . — The cross - examination of the petitioner No. 1, Ramprasad 
( P . W . 1 ) , would clearly show that he has been used only as a tool by someone else 
and the petition is vexatious. However , there is no definite material to come to 
the conclusion that it was false to the knowledge of the petitioners . 

Issue No. 3 .- - In view of the findings recorded on the other issues , I find that 
the petitioners have failed to prove that the respondent s election was liable to 
be declared void under clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 100 of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1961, read with article 102 ( 1 ) of the Constitution . 

Issue No. 5. - In the result, the petition is dismissed with costs . The peti 
tioners shall bear their own costs and shall pay the costs of the respondent, Plea 
der s fees Rs, 3 . 600. A copy of the findings and the judgment be sent to the 
Election Commission . 

By the Court, 

Sd . / - S . R . BHAVE , 
Addl. Special Officer , 

24 - 10 - 1967. 

[No. 82 / 16 /Nagpur /67 .] 
ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1967 
S . O . 4471 .- - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Prithvi 
Singh , Village Barav Talla Kalifat, P . O . Barav, District Chamoli a contesting 
candidate for election to the House of the People from Tehri Garhwal Constituency 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses within the time and in 
the manner required by the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder ; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi 
cation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Prithvi Singh to be disqualifed for 
being chosen as , and for being a member oť either House of Parliament or of 
{he Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order , 

[NO. UP -HP / 1 / 67 .] 
New Delhi, the 14th November 1967 
S . O . 4472 . - Whercas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Devi Saran 
Tyagi, Village Makarmatpur Sihera , P . O . Niwari, Tehsil Ghaziabad , District Meerut, 
a contesting candiate for election 10 the House of the People from Baghpat 
constituency has failert to lodge in Account of his electicn expenses as required 
by the Representation of the Prople Art . 1951, and the Rules made thereurder ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance M section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Devi Saran Tyagi to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order. 

[NO. UP -HP /81 / 67 (i) . ] 


4728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 , 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[ PART IT 


4738 THE GAZETTE 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1967 
S . O . 4473 . - Whereas the Eloction Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram Krishna 
Rai, 24 -Master Zahurul Hasan Road , Allahabad . District Allahabad , a contesting 
candidate for election to the Hcluse of the People from Chail consituency , has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses within the time and in the 
manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder ; 

And whereas , after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or Justifl 
cation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ram Krishna Rai to be disqualifed 
for being chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this Order . 

[No. UP -HP / 57 / 87 .] 


New Delhi, the 29th November 1987 


S . O . 4474 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Venkat Rao 
Raisum , Sukulpur, Pratapgarh , a contesting candidate for election to the House 
of the People from Pratapgarh Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of 
his election expenses within the time required by the Reperesentation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And , whereas , the notice issued to the candidate to show cause , if any, why he 
should not be disqualified for the failure , could not be served on him as his 
whereabouts were not known ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Venkat Rao Raisum to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order . 

[NO. UP -HP / 23 / 67 . ] 


S . O . 4475 , -— Whercas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ramji Ral, 
Village and P . O . Sherpurkalan , District Ghazipur a contesting candidate for election 
to the House of the People from Ghazipur Constituency , has falled to locige an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ramji Rai to be disqualified for being 
chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[No. UP -HP / 50 / 87 .] 


New Delhi, the 30th November 1967 
S . O . 4476 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ambika 
Prasad Pande, Village and P . O . Daklngaon Keyar, District Sultanpur a contesting 
candidate for election to the House of the People from Amethi Constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ambika Prasad Pande to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being , a member of either House of Parliament 
OT of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this Order . 

[NO, UP -HP / 24 / 67.1 


SEC , 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


S . O . 4477 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfled that Shri Man Singh , 
Village Flotepur , P . O . Hilsari, District Farrukhabad a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Farrukhabad Constituency , las failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 


And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election) 
Commission hereby declares thc said Shri Man Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order , 

[No. UP -HP / 68 / 67. ] 


$ . 0 . 4478 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Kalka Prasad , 
Village and PO . Rajpur District Kanpur a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from Ghatampur Constituency , has failed to lodge an 
Account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Kalka Prasad to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parlament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from he date of this Order . 

[No . UP -HP /63/ 67 (1).] 


$ . O . 4479 .4Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mannt Lal 
Village and P . O . Baraur, District Kanpur a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from Ghatampur Constituency , has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 

Now . therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act . the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Manni Lal to be disqualifed for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 

[No. UP -HP /63/ 67 ( 2 ) . ] 


Nero Delhi, the 1st December 1907 
S . O . 4480 , — Whereas the Election Commission is satislied that Shri Tarlochan 
Singh , Gogi Hospital, Sadar Bazar , Karnal, a contesting candidate for clection to 
the House of the People from Kaithal Constituency , has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act , 1951, 
and the Rules made thereunder; 

Arld whereas the said candiclate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanaticn for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Tarlochan Singh to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
from the date of this Order. 

[ No. HN -IIP / 3 /67/ (0 . 1 
S . O . 4481. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfled that Shri T . G . S . 
Sundara Rao , Journalist, Bhadrachalam (Andhra Pradesh ) a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from 5 - Bhadrachalam Constituency , has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses within time and in the manner 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder ; 


740 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


PAKT II 


And whercas , after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justif 
cation for the failure; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act . the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri T . G . S . Sundara Rao to be disqualified 
for being chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly cr Legislative Council of, a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order. 

( No. AP - HP / 5 / 67 . ) 


S . O . 4482 , — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Khubi Ram 
of Village Dabodha , P . O . Farukh Nagar , District Gurgaon , a contesting candidate 
for clection to the House of the People from Mahendragarh Constituency , has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason cr explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Khubi Ram to be disqualified for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

(No. HN -HP / 7 / 67 / ( 7 ) .) 


8 . 0 . 4483. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ganga Dhar, 
House No. 605 , Nai Basti, Gurgaon , a contesting candidate for election to the 
House of the People from Mahendragarh Constituency , has falled to lodge an 
account of his election expenses in the manner required by the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ganga Dhar to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 

[No. HN -HP / 7 / 67 / ( 8 ). ] 


S . O . 4484 .-- Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Kalyan , 
Village Durgapur Basoti, P . O . Shikarpur, District Bulandshahr , a contesting candi 
date for election to the House of the People from Bulandshahr Constituency , has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
good reason or explanation for the fallure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Kalyan to be disqualilled for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order. 

[NO . UP -IP / 78 / 67.1 


S . O . 4485 . - Whereas the Election Cominission is satisfied that Shri Ram Bharose 
Lal Katiyar , 14 / 13 -Civil Lines, Kanpur a contesting candidate for election to the 
House of the People from Kannauj Constituency , has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses in the manner required by the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justA 
cation for the failure; 


SEC , 8 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / L AUSA 2 . 1889 


ALSA 2 . 1889 


4741 


1 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ram Bharose Lal Katiyar to be dis 
qualified for being chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this Order . 

[No. UP -HP / 67 / 67. ) 


S . O . 4486 .4Whereas the Election Commission iş satisfied that Shri Shobha Singh , 
Mohalla Khattriwura , Sikandrabad District Bulandshahr a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Khurja Constituency , has failed to 
lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner required by the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas , after considering the representation made by the sala candidate, 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or Justif 
cation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Shobha Singh to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order . 

( NO. UP -HP / 77 / 67. ] 


New Delhi, the 2nd December 1967 
8 . 0 . 4487. - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfed that Shri Jagdish Rai. 
8A / 101, Western Extension Area , Karol Bagh , New Delhi, a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Gurgaon Constituency , has falled 
to lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner required by the Repre 
sentation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
Teason or explanation for the fallure: 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Jagdish Rai to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 

[NC. HN -HP / 8 /67 / ( 9 ) . ] 


S . O . 4488 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram Saran 
Dass , s / o Hari Ram , House No . 136 , Mohalla Santokhpura , G . T . Road , Phagwara 
Kapurthala District, a contesting candidate for election to the House of the People 
from Phillaur Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
within the time and in the manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder : 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Cornmission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi 
cation for the failure . 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Ram Saran Dass to be disqualified for 
being chosen as, and for being, a member of either Hosule of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly Cr Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order . 

[NO , PB -HP / 8 /67 / ( 1) . ] 


S . O . 4489, - Whereas the Election Cominission is satisfect that Shri Goujagin , 
Harsip Village, B . P . O . Hansíp (Manipur) , a contesting candidate for Clection 
to the House of the People from Outer Manipur Constituency , has failed to lodge 
an uccount of his election expenses within the time and in the manner reguired 
by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules nade thereunder ; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justi 
fication for the failure ; 


4742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Goujagin to be disqualified for being chosen 
as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the 
date of this Order . 

[No. MR-HP / 2 / 67 ( 19 ). ] 


S . O . 4490 . - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Dharam 
Chand Jallan , AV11, Kailash Colony , New Delhi, a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Gurgaon Constituency , has failed to 
lodge an uccount of his election expenses within the time required by the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the notice to show reason or explanation for the failure has 
been received back undeliverec ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Dharam Chand Jallan to be disqualified 
for being chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this Order , 

[ No. HN -HP / 8 /67 / ( 16 ). ] 


e Rules enseignano Pichtakaton contestant She 


New Delhi, the 5th December 1987 
S . O . 4491. - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfled that Shri Jia Ram , 
House No. 163 , Village Kurar Ibrahim , Tahsil Sonepat, a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Rohtak Constituency , has failed to 
lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas , the said candidate ever after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Jia Ram to be disqualiflert for being 
chosen as, and for being , a member of elther House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 

[No. HN - HP / 4 /67/ ( 10 ) . ] 


S . O . 4492. Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Bhim Singh , 
House No . 272, Village and P . O . Dharana, Tahsil Gohana , a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Rohtak Constituency , has failed to 
lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 

Now therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Bhim Singh to be disqualifed for being 
chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order, 

[No. HN -HP /4 /67 ( 11). ] 


New Delhi, the 6th December 1967 
S . O . 4493 , - Whereas the Election Commission is gatisfied that Shri Nathu Dass, 
V . Phefana , District Ganganagar a contesting candidate for election to the House 
of the People from Ganganagar constituency, has failed to lodge an account of 
his election expenses within the time and in the manner required by the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate 
the Election Commission is further satisfled that he has no good reason or justifi 
cation for the failure ; 


SEO , 3 (11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4743 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the sald Shri Nathu Dass to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 

[No. RJ-HP / 1 / 67 ( 1) . ] 


S . O . 4494 , - - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfled that Shri Bachna 
Ram , Nohar (Ganganagar ) a contesting candidate for election to the House of 
the People from Ganganagar constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses within the time and in tho manner required by the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder. 


And whercas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justif 
cation for the l allurc ; 


Now therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, Elcction 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Bachna Ram to be disqualificd for being 
chosen as , und for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three ycars from 
the date of this Order . 

(No. RJ-HP / 1 / 67 (2 ) . 1 


S . O . 4495 .- -Whercas the Election Commission is satisfed that Shri Harphul 
Singh of Village and P . O . Nehla , Tahsıl Fatahabad , a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Sirsa Constituency , has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas , thc said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason 
or explanation for the fallure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Harphul Singh to be disquallAed for 
being chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 

[No. HN -HP / 9 / 67 / ( 12 ) . ] 
New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 
S .O . 4496. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Daryao Singh , 
Delhi Road, Rohtak , a contesting candidato for election to the House of the People 
from Jhajjar Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder ; 

And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Daryao Singh to be disqualifier] for being 
chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this Order. 

[No. HN HP / 5 /87 ( 13).1 
S . O . 4497. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Bhim Singh , 
Village and P . O . Sehri, Tehsil and District Rohtak , a contesting candidate for elec 
tion to the House of the People from Jhajjar Constituency , has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whoreas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Bhim Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being . a member of either House of Parliament or of the 


. 4744 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- - 


Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 


[ No. HN -HP / 5 / 67 ( 14 ). ] 


s . o 4498 ,-— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Lachhmi 
Narain . Kath Mandi, Ward No . 3 , Sonepat, a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from Jhajjar Constituency , has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1851, 
and the Rules made thereunder; 


And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any reason 
or explanation for the fallure; 


Now therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Lachhmi Narain to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this Order . 


[No. HN -HP / 5 / 67 ( 15 ) . ] 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1967 


8 . O . 4499 ,-— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Somar Sai 
a contesting candidate for election to the House of the People from Surguja 
constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner as requited by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder ; 


And whereas the said candidate, even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure ; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the sald Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Somar Sai to be disqualified for being 
chosen as. and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this Order . 


[NO. MP -HP / 10 /87 . 1 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1967 
S . O . 4500 , -- Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri N . Achuthan 
Nair , Devicolam Estate , Workers Union Omce , Munnar (Kerala State ) , a contesting 
candidate for election to the House of the People from the Muvattupuzha Parlla 
mentary Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his clection expenses 
within the time required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the 
Rules made thereunder ; 


And whereas the said candidate , even after due notice, has not given any reason 
or explanation for the failure ; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri N . Achuthan Nair to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
Irom the date of this Order. 


[No . KL -IIP / 11 /67 ( 1). ] 

By Order, 
KS. RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


Sec, 3( 18)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 18894745 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 
S . O . 4501 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of Delhi Special 
Police Estab ishment Act , 1946 ( 25 of 1946 ) , the Central Government hereby specifies 
the following offences as the offences which are to be investigated by the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment, namely : 

( a ) Offences punishable under sections 277 and 278 of the Income Tax Act, 

1961 ( 43 of 1961) . 
(b ) Offences punishable under sections 9 and 17 of the Central Excises and 

Salt Act , 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) . 
( C ) Ollences punishable under sections 196 , 199 and 200 of the Indian Penal 

Code (45 of 1360 ) . . 
( d ) Attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clauses ( al to ( c ) and 
any other offence committed in the course of tho sane transaction arising 
out of the same facts . 

[No. 25 / 4 /14-AVD -JI. ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 
S . O . 4502. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i ) of section 5 
of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 ( 25 of 1946 ). the Central 
Government hereby extends to the States of Andhra Pradesh , Assam . Bihar, 
Gujarat, Haryana , Kerala . Madhya Pradesh , Madras, Maharashtra , Mysore , Naga 
land , Orissa , Punjab , Rajasthan , Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. the powers and 
jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment for the 
investigation of any offences specified in the Scherlule hereto annexeu . 

SCHEDULE 
( a ) Offences punishable under sections 277 and 278 of the Income Tax Act , 

1961 (43 of 1961 ). 
(b ) Offences punishable under sections 9 and 17 of the Central Excises and 

Salt Act, 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) . 
( c ) Offences punishable under sections 196 . 199 and 200 of the Indian Penal 

Code (45 of 1860 ) . 
( d ) Attempts , abetments and conspiracles in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the oftences mentioned in clauses ( a ) to ( c ) and 
any other offence committed in the course of the same transaction Grising 
out of the same facts . 

[No. 25 / 4 /64-AVD - II. ] 

C . A . NAIR Under Secy . 
New Delhi, the 12th December 1967 
9 . O . 4803. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 2 ) of article 77 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Authentication (Orders and Other Instrument) Rules , 1958 namely : - 
1. ( 1) These rules may be called the Authentication (Orders and Other Instru 
ments ) Eight Amendment Rules, 1967. 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official 
Gazette . 

2 . In rule 2 of the Authentication (Orders and Other Instruments ) Rules, 1958 , 
for clause ( ab ) the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" (ab ) in the case of orders and other instruments relating to the Ministry or 

Finance, Department of Revenue and Insurance , by the Commissioner 

(Revision Applications ) or the Director or Assistant Director, Tax 
Credit ( Export ) Division , in that Department; or " . 

[No. 3/ 11 /67-Pub.-I. ] 
K . R . PRABHU . Jt. Secy . 


4746 


THE- GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1869 


[PAKT II 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1987 
S . O . 4504. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1966 . 


2 . These rules may be called the Manipur Ernployees (Revision of Pay ) Rules, 
1967. 


3 . In schedule to the Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay) Rules, 1966 , 
(1 ) Under the heading " Medical Department" , for the existing entry in 

column 4 against Item No. 14 , the following entry shall be inserted : 

Rs. 125 — 4 — 145 — EB _4 1651 — 3 — 5 — 200 . 
( 11 ) Under the heading Statistical Department for the existing entry in 

column 4 against Item No. 7 , the following entry shall be inserted : 
Rs. 1254 - 145 - EB - 4 - 1651 — B — 5 — 200 . 

( No. 1 / 16 / 65 -HMT. ] 
V . P . MALHOTRA, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 5th December 1967 
S . O . 4505 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the National Savings Organisation (Class I and Class II Posts ) Recruitment 
Rules , 1963 , namely : 

1 . ( 1 ) These rules may be called the National Savings Organisation (Class I 
and Class II Posts ) Recruitment (Second Amendment) Rules , 1967. 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of the publication of these rules in 
the Omcial Gazette . 

2 . In the Schedule to the National Savings Organisation ( Class I and Class II 
Posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1963 — 
( i ) against iters 1 to 4 , in the entries in column 10 , for the words " Transfer / 

Deputation ordinarily not exceeding four years " , the words and 
brackets " Transfer /Deputation ( period of deputation ordinarily not 

exceeding four years) " shall be substituted ; 
( ii ) against items 5 and 7 , in the entries in column 10 , for the words " Trans 

fer / Deputation ordinarily not excecding three years " , the words and 
brackets " Transfer / Deputation (period of deputation ordinarily not 
exceecling three years ) " shall be substituted . 

[ NO . F . 16 (12) -NS / 67.] 
V . S. RAJAGOPALAN , Under Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 


• 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1967 


S . O . 4506 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , extends for a period of one year till the 31st 
December, 1968, the exemption granted in S . O . 3906 dated the 24th December 1966 , 
to the National Bank of Pakistan , Calcutta and the Habib Bank Ltd ., Bombay, 
from the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 11 of the said Act. 

[ No . F .17 (17) -BC / 66.] 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Under Secy 


SEC , 3( )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 , 1987/ PAUSA 2, 1869 


4747 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1967 
S . O . 4507 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 21 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act , 1948 ( 15 of 1948 ) , the Central Government, on the 
recommendations of the Board of Directors of the Industrial Finance Corporation 
of India hereby Axes 6 per cent per annum as the rate of interest payable on 
the bonds to be issued by the said Corporation in January , 1968 and maturing 
on the 1st January , 1969 . 

[No. F . 2 (67) -Corp / 67.] 
A . K . NATARAJAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 2nd December 1967 
S . O . 4508. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act , 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Government 
hereby remits the stamp duty with which the ad hoc bonds to the value of thirty 
five lakhs of rupees to be issued by the Jammu and Kashmir State Financial 
Corporation , are chargeable under the said Act. 


3.0: 4508. or the camp duty,ssued by the AC 


[No. 13 / 17 -- F . No. 1 / 72 / 67 -Cus. VII / Stamps. ) 


M . S . SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy . 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 


INCOME- TAX ESTABLISHMENTS 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1967 
S . O . 4509 . - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( ii ) of rule 2 of the Appellate 
Tribunal Rules, 1946 , the Central Government was pleased to appoint Shri R . 
Srinivasan , Income- tax Officer , Class II Madras as Junior Authorised Represen 
tative, Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras , to appear , plead and act for any 
Income tax authority who is a party to any proceedings before the Income-tax 
Appcllate Tribunal , Madras from 18th May, 1966 to 15th August , 1967. 

[No. 353. 1 


S . O . 4510 . - - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( ii ) of rule 2 of the Appellate 
Tribunal Rules 1946 , the Central Government has been pleased to appoint Shri 
P . R . Sarma, Income-tax Omcer , Class II , Madras as Junior Authorised Repre 
sentative, Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras with effect from the forenoon 
of 16th August , 1967 to appear , plead and act for any Income Tax uuthority who 
is a party to any proceeding before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras . 


[No. 354 . ] 


M . G . THOMAS, Under Secy 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1987 


S . O . 4511 . - In pursuance of clause ( c ) of sub - rule ( 1B ) of rule 126HH of the 
Defence of India Rules , 1982 , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendments in the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of 


4748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


(PART II 


Finance, Department of Revenue and Insurance , S . O . No. 3894 , dated the 1st 
December, 1966 , namely : 


In the said notiAcation , in the Table below the Note 
( 1 ) in the entries relating to serial number 7 , against the entries corres 

ponding to item (ii ) of column ( 2 ) , for the existing entry in column (3 ) 
the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" An Officer not below the rank of Assistant Gram Sevak or Talathi of 
Zila Parishads or of the Revenue Department " . 


( 3 ) 


( 2 ) after serial number 21 and the cntries relating thereto , the following 

shall be adderl, namely : 
(1 ) (2 ) 
22 . Haryana Tahsildars or Nalb Tahslldars . 
23 Pondicherry Revenu . Otcers or Village Munsifs." 

[No. F 3 /25 /67-GC.- II.] 
JASJIT SINGH . Jt. Secy , 


THE MADRAS CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , MADRAS 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Madras, the 5th December 1967 
S . O . 4512 . - In pursuance of Rule 233 of the Central Excise Rules 1944, the 
undersigned directs that in the register prescribed in this Collectorate Notification 
C . No. 7 / 19,/ 30 / 36 / 85 - C . E -Pol., dated 5th June , 1965 [ Published in s . o . No . 2508 , 
Part II , Section 3 ( 11 ) , dated 14th August , 1965 of the Gazette of India ], an additional 
column viz ., column No. 11, as in Appendix I, shall be inserted . 

And in addition to the above, two registers as in Appendices II and III shall alsс . 
be maintained by licensed processors of cotton fabrics. 


be And in addition to the above,two registers as in Appendices II and III shall 


APPENDIX I 


After the existing colunin 10, insert the following as column II and re -number columns 11,12 and 12: 13 and 14 respectively : 


Date of 
baling 


Sound 11 (b ) 


Fents II (C ) 


Rags 1 (d ) 


Chindies II( e) 


SerialNo. of 
bales 


Qty . 


S . N . of 
bales 


Qty. 


S. No. of 
bales 


Qty . 


S . No. of Qty . 
bales 


- 


- 


- 


- 


11(a) 


(1) 


(i ) 


(i) 


(ii) 


.. 


.. 


..28,I!,AUSA2,1889 


4749 


APPENDIX II 
Baling Register 


2750 


Date Bale 


Sq , metre 


No. 


Nume of 
the parent 
Mill 


Quantity Linear 

metre 
per piece 


Lizear Width 
metre 


Remarks 


Total 
No. of 
pieces 


Net 
weight 


Gross 
Gross 
Weight 


Processing 

aard under 
which the 
fabrics were 
processed ( i. c 
Col. 2 of the 
processing 
register ) 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


II 


11 


12 


13 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSA2,1899 


1 


[PARTII– 


APPENDIX III 
Register showing the Baletise receipt of Cotton Febrics and issued thereof for processing 


St. 


Formation 
from which 

received 


A . R . JNo. & 
date /document 
No. & date 
under which 
received . 


S . No. marked Variety - fine ! Quantity 
on each bale superfin ect., 
( tact No . to & the No. aliot- Linear Sq. 
be written on a ed to the cotton notre metre 
separate line one fabrics by the 
below the other) parent mil 


Datz on 
which cach 
bale is issued 

from grey 
store room to 
the processing 
section . 


Date on 
which issued 
for processing 
( stitching ) 


Processing 
(stitching ) card No. 
under which taken 

for processing 
(i.e , S . No . shown 
in col. 2 of the pro 
cessing register). 


5 


6(a) 


(b) 


[ C , No. V ( 19 ) 30 / 14 / 65 -CX -I. } 
S . VENKATARAMAN , Collector . 


4796 


4752 


. 


G . 


: 


, 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
( Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

Panjim , Goa the 30th November 1967 
S . O . 4513 . - M / s. Caxinata P . Camotin & Irmao, Panjim were granted an import 
licence No . P / EI / 0004348 - C / XX /23 / C / G / 23 - 24 , dated 3rd June, 1966 . They have 
applied for a duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of the licence on the ground that 
the Original Copy of the Customs Purposes Copy of the licence has been lost . 
It is further stated that the original licence was not registered with any Customs 
Authority and has been partly utilised to the extent of Rs. 202 . In support of 
this contention , the applicant has Aled an amidavit. 

I, R . D . Pawar, Dy . Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Panjim -Goa In 
the Ministry of Commerce , in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause 9 of 
Import ( Control) Order , 1955 , hereby cancel the Original Customs Purposes Copy 
of Import licence No. P / EI / 0004348- C / XX / 23 / C / G / 23- 24 , dated 3rd June , 1966 . 

[No. EI / 293-95-97-1V / 10 / AM67. ] 

R . D . PAWAR , 
Dy. Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports . 


( Once of the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st December 1967 
S . O . 4514 . — The licences Nos. ( 1) P /SS / 1506265 / C , dated 22nd July , 1986 for 
Rs. 3 , 150 for the import of Permissible Dyes Intermediate and ( 2 ) P / SS / 1573601 / C , 
dated 26th August, 1966 for Rs. 16 ,000 for the import of Permissible Dyes Inter 
mediate were issued to M / s . Mewar Thread Works, Moyied Pura, Bohrawadi, 
Udalpur (Rajasthan ) . 

2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No. M - 7 /67 / Enf / CLA / 3328 , dated 29th Septem 
ber , 1967 was issued asking them to show cause within 10 days as to why the 
said licences in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central 
Government is satisfied that the licences will not serve the purpose for which these 
were granted in terms of Clause 9 ( c ) . 

3. In response to the aforesaid show cause notice no reply has been received 
from M / s. Mewar Thread Works, Moyied Pura , Bohrawadi, Udaipur (Rajasthan ) . 

4 . The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to the 
conclusion that the party have no defence to urge and have avoided a reply . 

5 . Having regard to what has been stated in the proceeding paragraph , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licences in question should be cancelled or other 
wise rendered ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned , in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 ( cc ) of the Imports (Control ) Order , 1955 hereby 
cancel the aforesaid licences issued in favour of M / s . Mewar Thread Works, Moyled. 
Pura , Bohrawadi, Udaipur (Rajasthan ) , 
M / s . Mewar Thread Works, 

(No. : M - 7 / 67 / ENF / CLA / 3925 . I 
Moyied Pura , Bohra Wadi, 

J S . BEDI, 
Udaipur (Rajasthan ) . 

Jt. Chief Controller : of Imports and Exportko 


( Оfice of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 
S . O 4510 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports 
( Control) Order , 1955 , dated 7th December , 1955 as amended , the undersigned 
hereby cancels both the customs purposes copy and Exchange purposeg copy of 


Sec , 8 ( ii ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBEK 28 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4753 


Import Licence No. G / RP / 2441088 / C / XX / 24 / CH / 24 , dated 8th March , 1967 for 
the importation of National Wireless Microphone System Model CM - 232 - A and 
Fecder Cable 3 C - 2V etc . falling under I. T . C . Schedule No. 289 / IV , valued at Rs. 685 
issued in favour of M / s. Photophone Equipments Limited , Bombay . 

The reason for cancellation of the licence is that the foreign suppliers had 
regretted their inability to supply the goods . 

[No. 4 - P / Rly / 66 -67 /GLS / 895.) 

S . A . SESHAN , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 

( Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 
S . O . 4516 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 8 
of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( 19 of 1925 ), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the notiAcation of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Education , Health and Lands No. 43-6 / 37 - H , dateri 
The 3rd June, 1937 , namely : 
In the said notification the words a non -pensionable permanent shall be omitted . 

[No. F . 4 -55 / 65-MPT.] 
L . K . MURTHY, Under Sery . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING 

( Transport Wing ) 

Nen Delhi, the 14th December 1967 
S . O . 4517 . - In pursuance of rule 25 of the Inter - State Transport Commission 
Rules , 1.460, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . Balakrishnan , Joint 
Secretary and Legal Adviser , Department of Legal Affairs , Ministry of Law as 
meruber of the Inter - Siate Transport Appellate Tribunal vice Shri V . S . Despande 
and makes the following amendment in the notifcation of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Transport and Aviation ( Department of Transport, Shipping and 
Tourism - Transport Wing) No. 25 - T (32 ) / 63, dated the 20th July , 1986 , namely : 

In the said notification , for item 3, the following item shall be substituted , 
namely : 

" 3. Shri S . Balakrishnan , Joint Secretary and Legal Adviser , Department of 
Legal Affairs , Ministry of Law . ” — Member . 

[No . 25- T (32) / 63.] 
B . M . MAZUMDAR , Under Secy . 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 
S . O . 4518. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Overseas Communications Service Employees Contributory Provident Fund Rules , 
1964 , namely = 

1. These rules may he called the Overseas Communications Service Einployees 
Contributory Provident Fund ( Amendment) Rules, 1967 . 

2 . In the Overseas Communications Service Employees Contributory Provident 
Fund Rules , 1964 , in sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 18 , the following Notes shall be inserted , 
namely S 

" NOTE 1, - - A subscriber shall be permitted to make a withdrawal onec in every 
six months under clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 16 . Every such withdrawal 


4754 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 29, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


shall be treated as withdrawal for a separate purpose for the purpose of sub -rule 
( 9 ) of rule 18 . 

NOTE 2 . - In cases where a subscriber has to pay in instalments for a site or 
a house purchased , or a house constructed through a House Building Co -operative 
Boclety or similar agency, he shall be permitted to make a withdrawal as and 
when he is called upon to make a payment in any instalment. Every such pay 
ment shall be treated as a payment for a separate purpose for the purposes of 
sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 18 . 

[No. 3 -0C ( 28 ) / 67. ) 
S . S . PRUTHI, Under Secy 


CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1967 
S . O . 4519 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section 6 of Section 
3 of the Electricity (Supply ) Act 1948 , the Central Electricity Authority hereby 
appoints Shri M . Kothandaraman , Extra Assistant Director, Central Water & 
Power Commission ( Power Wing ) 89 Aggistant Director in the Southern Regional 
Hlectricity Board , with effect from the forenoon of the 1st December , 1967, until 
further orders 

[No. 21 / 9 /86 -Adm .I. ] 
M . M . DHAWAN , Under Secy . 

for Chairman , C .E . A . 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1967 
8 . 0 , 4520 . - Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petroleum and Chemicals s .o . No. 3238 , dated the 4th September , 1967 under 
sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of 
User in Land ) Act , 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention 
to acquire the right of uger in the lands specified in the Schedule appended to 
that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas, the competent authority bas, under sub -section (1) of section 8 
of the sald Act , submitted report to the Government; 

And , wheresa , the Central Government, has , after considering the said report , 
deolded to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule appended 
to this notification ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1 ) of section 
6 of the vald Act. the Central Government hereby declares that the right of user 
in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is hereby 
Acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 4 ) of that section , the Central Government directs that the right of 
user in the said Honda , shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest 
Or he date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances . 

SCHEDULE 


State : Gujarat 


District : Broach 


Teluka : Ankleshwar 


VIAS 


Hector 


P . Art . 


Survey No 
233 /2 
233 


Arc 

11 


Aalleshwar 


. 


. 


. 


. 


32 


( Sd .) K . M . Vyas, 

Anett . Hat an ecer, 
Cryorat Pipelino Frolact, 

Baroda. 
[No. 31 / 41 / 64 -Vol II / Prod / 1 .0 . C . 

P . P. GUPIA , Under Secy. 


Src, 3(11)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4755 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 
S . O . 4521. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule o of 
the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Smt. Snehalata Reddy after consultation with Central Board of Film 
Censors as a member of the Advisory Panel of the sald Board at Mądrąs with 
immediate effect . 

[ No. 11 /3 / 65-FC. 
H . C . KHANNA , Dy. Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 
8 . 9 . 4522 - In the Schedule to this Ministry s S . O , No. 3991 dated 23rd 
October, 1987 appearing in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - Section 
( 11 ) dated the 17th November, 1967, under C61. 2 against S . No . 2 for the existing 
entries " Dhyan Se Sochiye" please read " Diyan Se Sochiye -7 " . Also under Col. 
3 against S . No. 2 for the existing entry " 717 M please read " 17 M " . 

(No. # . 24 / 1 / 67 -FP App . 1222. ] 
DANŲ RAM AGGARWAL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT & REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi, the 2nd December 1967 
S . O . 4523. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948 ) read with section of the said Act and Rule 3 of 
the Minimum Wages (Central Advisory Board ) Rules 1949 and in supersession of 
the notification of the Government of Indla in the late Ministry of Labour and 
Employment So . No . 259D LWI ( I ) 6 ( 16 ) / 28 dated the 17th November , 1989 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints a Central Advisory Board consisting of the 
following members , namely : - - 

INDEPENDENT PERSONS 

Chairman 
1 . Dr. S . T . Merani, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation , Department of Labour and Employment) New Delhi, 

Members 
2 - Shri S . J. Das, Secretary , Government of Assam , Shillong, 
3. Shri S . B . Lal, Labour Commissioner Government of Madhya Pradesh 

Indore . 
4. Shri R . B . Shukla , Labour Commissioner Government of Gujarat, 

Ahmedabad 
5 . Shri S . Nagarajan , Deputy Secretary, Government of Kerala , Trivandrum . 
6 . Shri S . K . Misra , Labour Commissioner , Government of Haryana, Chandi 

garh . 
7. Dr. T. V . S. Chalapathi Rao , M . L .A ., Vijavada ( Andhra Pradesh ) ; 
8 . Shri S . K . Sen , Prosiding Officer , Central Government Industrial Tribu 

nal- Cum - Labour Court, 20 , British Indian Street, Srd Floor , Calcutta . 
9 . Shri Vishwa Nath Pandey , M . P . 189 North Avenue, New Daiht. 
10 . Shri C . N . Vəkil, 14 Kalpana, 90 , Marine Drive , Bombay . 
11. Shri Ram Chandra Sinba , Secretary to the Government of Bihor, and 

2 - picio Chairman , Minimun Wage Statt Advisory Board , Patna. 


4756 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART U 


Representatives of Employees 
12 . Shri N . M . Barot C / o Textile Labour Association , Gandhi Majoor Sevalaya , 

Bhadra , Ahmedabad . 
13. Shri Durgeshwar Saikia , C /o Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangh , Dibrugarh . 
14 . Shri Vigendra Kahra , General Secretary (INTUC ) Maharashtra Branch , 

27 , Military Squaro Lane, Fort, Bombay . 
15 . Shri Prabhakar Tripathi, Secretary ( INTUC ) U . P . Branch , 11 / 365 , Souter 

ganj, Kanpur. 
16 . Shri Satpal Bhushan , President (INTUC ) Punjab Branch , S . C .F . 4, Sector 

20 - D , Chandigarh . 
17. Shri N . Keshava , Ag. President (INTUC ) Mysore, T . B . Raju Building , 

6th Main Road , Gandhinagar , Bangalore . 
18 . Shri N . N . Manna, CPWD Workers Union , 6 Tooti, Paharganj, New Delhi. 
19 . Shri R . Umanath , M .P ., 4 Ashoka Road , New Deini. 
20. Shri Vllas Gandhi, Metal and Engineering Mazdoor Sabha , 491 Rawlwar 

Peth , Moti Chauk , Poona- 2 . 
21. Shri S . R . Kulkarni, President All India Port and Dock Workers Federa 

tion , D Mello Bhavan , Carnac Bunder , 167, P . D . Mello Road , Bombay. 
22. Shri Jatin Chakravarty, 249, Bepin Behari Ganguly Street, Calcutta . 
23 . Shri Lahtan Chowdhury , Convener of the Bihar Agricultural Labour 

Committee, Supul, District Sahersa ( Bihar ) . 


Representatives of the Employers 
24 . Shri H . C . Kotharl, Oriental Building, Armenian Street, Madras. 
25 . Shri K . N . Sahaya Sahaya Sadan , Bailey Road, Patna. 
20 . Shri M . K . Mohta , B -26 , Greater Kailash , 1 , New Delhi. 
27. Shri Deokisan B . Sarda , Clo M / S Bastiram . Naridas Maheshri Sinnar 

(Nasil ) (Maharashtra ) . 
28 . Shri J. G . Gill , General Manager in India , Ihe Commonwealth Trust, Post 

Box No. 5 , Calicut. 
29 . Shri P . J, Parr , Senior Adviser , Indian Tea Association , Royal Exchange , 

Netaji Subhash Road , Calcutta - 1 . 
30 . Shri P . K . Sahgal, General Manager, The British India Corporation Ltd ., 

Cooper Allen Branch , Civil Lines, Kanpur. 
31. Shri D . P . R . Cassad , Managing Director , C . P . Syndicate Private Ltd ., 

Byramji Town , Nagpur . 
32. Shri Guru Pershad , Vice President and Managing Director of M / s Hyder 

abad Allwyn Metal Works C / o All India Manufacturers Organisation , 

Sir Phroze Shah Mehta Road, Bombay - 1 , 
33 . Shri G . S . Gupta , Lakshmi Engineering Works, Hauz Quazi, Delhi-8 . 
34 . Shri Tirth Prakash , Deputy Director , Civil Engineering, Railway Board , 

New Delhi, 
35 . A representative of Ministry of Defence, 

[No. LWI(I) 8 (3) / 67.) 
0 . P . TALWAR , Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour & Employment ) 
New Delhi, the 5th December 1987 


S . O . 4521.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
27 of the Payment of Bonus Act , 1965 ( 21 of 1985 ) the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of India 


SEC. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4757 


in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 
and Employment) No . S . O . 1491 dated the 15th April, 1967; namely : 


In the table to the said notification 
(i ) in the entries against item II , in column ( 2 ) after the words " The State 

of Maharashtra " the words " and the Union Territories of Goa , Daman 

and Diu ” shall be inserted ; 
( ii) after item X and the entries relating thereto , the following item and 

entries shall be inserted , namely : 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


" XI Deputy Chief Labour Com 
missioner (Central) , Dhanbad . 


The States of Bihar , West Bengal, 
Orissa , Assam , Nagaland and the 
Union Territories of Manipur and 
Tripura " . 


- - - - -- - - 


- - 


--- 


[No. WB-20 (8 ) /67 .] 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 5th December 1967 
S . O . 4525. -- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishe " ". 

ward of the 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the . . . . . between the 
employers in relation to the Pootkee Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Limited , Post Office Kusunda , District Dhanbad and their Managing Agents Messrs 
K . C . Thaper and Brothers, Thapar House , 25, Brabourne Road , Calcutta - 1 of the 
one part, and their workmen of the other part, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 1st December , 1967. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 
In the inatter of a reference under Section 10 ( 1) (d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. 1947 

REFERENCE No. 39 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Pootkee Colliery of Messrs . Bhowra Kankanee 
Collieries Ltd ., P . O . Kusunda , District Dhanbad. 

AND 

Their Workmen 
PRESENT : 

Sri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the employers : Sri K . C . Nandkeolyar, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer . 
For the workmen : Sri Gopal Chandra Munshi, General Secretary , Khan Maz 

door Congress . 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
the 25th November, 1967 
Dhanbad , dated 

4th Agrahayana , 1889 

AWARD 
The Central. Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Pootkee Colliery of Messrs Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Limited , Post Office Kusunda , District Dhanbad and their 


4758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


Managing Agents , M / s . K . C . Thaper and Brothers , Thaper House , 25 . Brabourne 
Road , Calcutta - 1 on the one part and their workmen on the other part , by its order 
No. 2 / 18 / 65 -LR . II dated the 14th May, 1965 referred to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specifled in the schedule 
annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

" SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Pootkee Colllery of Messrs Bhowra 

Kankanee Collierles Limited and their Managing Agents , Messrs. K . C . 
Thaper and Brothers , in dismissing Sri Abdul Gani, Shale Picker 
from service with effect from the 18th November , 1964 was justified ? 

If not, to what relief , is the workman entitled ?" 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the refer 
ence as No. 78 of 1905 op its Me The workmen Aled their statement of demands, 
While it was pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad 
the proceeding was transferred to this Tribunal, by the Central Government by its . 
order No. 8 / 25 /67 - LRII dated 8th May, 1967 under Section 33 ( B ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. Consequently , the reference is renumbered on the file of this 
Tribunal as reference No . 39 of 1967. The employers also Aled their statement of 
demands. 

3 . The case of the workmen is that Abdul Gani, a shalę picker in the employ 
of the Pootkee Colliéry of the employers was an office bearer and an active worker 
of the Khan Mazdoor Congress Branch , that on 23rd August 1964 there was a big 
meeting of the workers held at the colliery ground under the banner of the Khan . 
Mazdoor Congress, that the management did not like that there should be a branch 
of the Khan Mazdoor Congress at the colliery , that in pursuance of their policy of 
harassing and victimising the ring leaders of the Khan Mazdoor Congress Branch 
the management chargesheeted Abdul Gani (hereinafter referred to as the affected 
workinan ) on the next morning with false allegations and that after conducting & 
perfunctuary enquiry dismissed him from service with effect from 18th November 
1964 , wrongfully and illegally . The stand of the employers is that the affected 
workman was chargesheeted for misconduct as defned in the Certified Standing 
Orders , that on his denlal he was given notice of the enquiry , that the enquiry was 
conducted in his presence giving him full opportunity to cross examine the pro 
secution witnesses and to adduce his defence evidence , that on the material before 
him , the enquiry officer found the affected workman guilty of the charges brought 
against him , that the management accepted the findings of the enquiry officer and 
ordered dismissal of the affected workman and that the enquiry was fair and in 
accordance with the principles of natural justice . The employers denied that the 
action taken by them against the affected workinan was motivated with victimisa 
tion : 

4 . The workmen were represented by Sri Gopal Chandra Munshi, General Secres 
tary , Khan Mazdoor Congress, and the employers by Sri K . C . Nandkeolyar, Deputy 
Chief Personnel Officer . On behalf of the workmen the affected workman is ex 
amined as WW1 and Exts . M1 to M6 are marked . On behalf of the employers also 
@ witness , MW1 is examined and Exts. M7 to M19 are marked . By consent of the 
employers Ext . W1 is marked for the workmen , It is alleged on behalf of the 
workomen and deposed to by WW1 that the dismissal of the affected workman was 
a result of the victimising policy of the employers , in as much as the affected work 
man was an office bearer and an active worker of the Khan Mazdoor Congress 
Branch of the Colliery . This allegation is flatly denied by the employers and they 
pleaded that the dismissal wag the result of a proper domestic daquiry . I have to 
consider the alleged victimisation and the domestic enquiry independently . In , 
respect of the alleged victimisation the case of the workmen hinges solely on the 
oral testimony of the affected workman , WW1 and repetition of the allogation in 
their letters addrossed to the management and the Conciliation Qicer . Regarding 
the domestic enquiry there is considerable documentary evidence in addition to 
the oral testimony of the enquiry officer, MW1 and omissions on the part of the 
aftacted workman , WW1. It is an admitted fact that on 23rd August 1984 there 
was a meeting of the workmen at the colliery. Ext. M7 is the chargesheet served 
on the affected workman . The allegations contained in it were that on Sunday the 
220d August , 1984 at 10 - 30 A . M . when the work of loading 4 wagons was in pro , 
Tens the affected workman created a disturbance , threatened the loading labourers 
to stop work illegally , the loading clerk Srl A . K . Raha asked the affected workman 
to forebear from auch illegal activity but the affected workman disobeyed him , 
threatened him .and miuged to leave the pit as asked by him . The charges brought 

nart him were wiltul logubordipation and disobedience of 14 stul arid reasonable 
orders of the superior, rigtous ind disorderly behaviour causing damego to the 
work in progress and abetmest of the above misconducta . Admittedly , the attected 


SEC , 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


450 


workman gubmitted his reply to the chargesheet of 26th August, 1964 and it is 
Ext. M1. He denied the charges and pleaded victimisation . Sri H . R . S . Sodhi, 
the Administrative Officer of Postkee Colllery , MW1 made the enquiry . Five wit 
nesses were examined for prosecution and their statements are Exts . M9, M10 , M11 , 
M12 & M13 . Each of the witnesses is cross examined by the aflected workman . 

The affected workman has admitted his signatures on the statements , Exts . M9. 
M10 , M11 & M12, but denied his signatures on other statements and on his own 
statement, Ext. M14 . While admitting his signature on the statement of one of his 
detence witnesses , Ext. M15 he has denied his signature on the statement of other 
defence witness , Ext. M16 . But MW1 has proved all the statements , Exts , M9 to . 
M13, the statement of the affected workmen , Ext. M14 and the two statements of 
the defence witnesses , Exts . M15 and M16 as recorded by him in presence of the 
affected workman . He has also proved that the affected workman cross examined 
all the prosecution witnesses , that he gave his own statement, Ext. M14 and that 
he got the statements Exts . M15 and M16 of his defence witnesses recorded . The 
report of the enquiry officer is Ext. M17 and it is also proved by MW1. The repart 
states that all the charges brought against the affected workman were proved . On 
the chargesheet , Ext, M7 I And the approval of the agent in dismissing the affected 
worloman as recommended . The Certified Standing Orders of the opposite party 
are Ext. M19 . Wilful insubordination or disobedience , whether alone or in com 
bination with another or others , of any lawful of reasonable order of his superior 
constitutes misconduct under s . O , 27 of the Certifed Standing Orders . Neither It 
is alleged nor did I find any violation of any principle of natural justice in the 
domestic enquiry conducted against the affected workman . I could not enter into 
appreciation of evidence recorded in the enquiry as an appellate authority . I do 
not find anything wrong or illegal in the domestic enquiry held against the affected 
workman . Under these circumstances I cannot agree that the dismissal at the 
affected workman was a result of the gross victimisation policy of the employers 
or that it was unjust . 

5 . I, therefore , hold that the action of the management of Pootkee Colliery of 
Messrs Bhouta Kankanee Collleries Co . Ltd ., and their Managing Agents , Messers 
K . C . Thaper and Brothers , in dismissing the affected workman , Abdul Gani, Shale 
Picker from service with effect from 18th November 1964 was justifled and , con 
sequently , he is not entitled to any relief . The award is made accordingly and 
submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

Sd / - N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Additional 

Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

APPENDIX I 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 


REFERENCE No . 39 OF 1967 
Ęmptoyers in relation to Pootkee Colliery of Messrs, Bhowra Kankance Collieries Ltd . . 
P . O . Kusunda, District Dhapbed 

Vs. 

Their Workmen 

List of Documents admitted in widence for the Employers 
Distinguish - Description of document and date Date of Whether admitted Pere 
bag mark or 

admission After or without ob - Number 
Dumber 

lection 


Ex. MI 


5 - 9 - 67 On proved . WWI 


Ex. M2 


Do. 


Do . 


Reply of the charpopheet dated 26 - 8 -64 

of Sri AbdulGhani. 
Signature of Sri Ghani on the state 
ment of Sri A , K Raha dated 

31- 8 -64. 
Statement of SHN , N . Ojha . 
Statement of Sri Khiroo 
Statement of Sri Kisoon . 


Do. 


Tz, M3 
Ez My 
Hz. MS 


Do . 
Do . 
Do. 


, 


Do . 


· 4760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II – 


I 


3 


4 


5 


Ex. M6 


5- 9 -67 


On Proved WWI 


18 


Do . 


Ex, M7 
Ex , M8 
Ex. M9 


Do. 


On Proved MWI 

Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Signature of Sri Gani on the statc 

ment of Sri Dwaraka Prasad on 

page 2 . , 
ChargesheetNo. 170 /64 dt. 24 - 8- 64 . 
Office copy of the notice of cnquiry 

dated 28 - 8 -64 . 
Identify the signature of Sri Abdul 
Gani on the statement of Sri A . K , 
Raha . 
Do. N . N , Ojha 

Khiroo 

Kisoon 
Do. 

Kalicharan 
Do. 

Dwarka Prasad 
AbdulGani 

Hari Saliu 
Lciter dated 7 -- 9 -64 from H . R . S . 

Sodhi to manager regarding enquiry 

report . 
Letter dated 7 - 1 -65 from Sri G . 

Munshi to Conciliation Officer , 

Dhanbad . 
Copy of the standing orders. . . 


Do. 
Do. 


Ex, MIO 
Ex, MII 
Ex . M12 
Ex . M13 
Ex . M14 
Ex. Mis 
Ex , M16 
Ex . M17 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


AAAAA 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 
Do . 


Do. 
Do. 
Do . 


Do. 


Ex, M18 


Do . 


Ex. M19 . 


Do 


Do. 


List of Documents Almitted in Evitince for the Workmen 


Description of document and date 


Distinguish - 
ing mark or 

number 


Date of Whether admitied 
admission after or without 

objection 


Ex, WI 


Dismissal letterNn. L .W . O . Rof.! 4320 /LWO /23/ 

B dt. 18 - 11- 1964 . 


5 - 9 -67 Admitted , 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


Sd /- N . VINKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 

Central Government. 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 


APPÜNDIX II 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No, 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD . 


REFERENCE NO. 39 OF 1967 . 
Employers in relation to Pootkee Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanec Collieries Ltd ., P . O 
Kubunda , District Dhanbad , 

Vs. 

Their workmen , 
List of Witness examined for the Employer 


No. of 


Nameof witness 


Date of examination 


MW 


Sri H , R , S , Sodhi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


- 9 - 1967. 


- 


, - , - 


- . 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


w 


. 


i 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


4701 


- 


11 


List of Witness examired for the Workmen 


In . 


No. of 
witness 


Name of witness 


Date of examination 


EWI 


Sri AbdulGavi 


5 -9 - 1967. 


- 


- - - -- 


- - 


- 


Sd / -. N , VENKATA RAO , 

I residing Officer, 

Central Government : 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 


[No. 2 / 18 / 65 -LRII. 1 


New Delhi, the 6th December 1967 
S . O . 4526 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
The Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery , Post Office Ukhra , District Burdwan , and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 2nd December , 
1967. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA . 

REFERENCE No . 45 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery, 

AND 
Their workmen 
PRESENT : 

Shri S . K . Sen - Presiding Oficer 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers - Shri K . P . Mukherjee , Bar- at-Law . 

On behalf of Workmen - Shri Kishore Chatterjee . 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 91 / 66 -LRII dated 24th May , 1967, the Central Government 
referred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery , Post Office , Ukhra , District Burdwan and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the following schedule : 
" Whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Neam Harijan and Ram Padarak Ram , 

M . C . Loaders by the management of Sarpi Kajora Colliery , Post 
Ofice , Ukhra with effect from the 23rd June, 1966 was justified ? It 

not , to what relict are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . According to the written statement of the union , the Colliery Mazdoor 
Union , Neam Harijan and Ram Padarak Ram , Loaders became memhers of the 
branch of the Colliery Mazdoor Union which was started by Keshab Banerjee 
at Sarpt Kajora Colliery in the beginning of 1966 ; and they did some work for 
the union eg, by collecting subscriptions. The management did 
not recognise the Colliery Mazdoor Union and wanted to crush the new union . 
The two workmen ,, Neam Harijan and Ram Padarak Ram , were falsely charge 
sheeted on 29th May , 1966 on the allegation that they had dissuaded workmen 
from going down the mine at the commencement of the third shift on 28th May , 
1986 beginning at 12 midnight and had thus affected the work and output in the 
mine. The two workmen submitted replies on 4th June , 1966 denying the 
allegations; they were notified that the enquiry would take place on 17th June , 


OZ 


, 


, GA , I 


A 


; . 


, 


23 , . . 


r . 


o . 


[PART 11 


1968. Both the workmen started together for the office where the enquiry was 
to be held , but they noticed a number of men armed with lathis near the office 
and out of fear they ran away and did not report at the office where the enquiry 
was to be held . They , however , informed the Labour Enforcement Officer at Ukhra 
and sent a letter by registered post to the Manager , Sarpi Kajora Colliery request 
ing him to fx another date for enquiry , but instead they received the letters of 
dismissal dated 23rd June 1986 . According to the union , the dismissal was 
unfair and amounted to victimisation . The union claimed reinstatement of the 
two workmen together with back wages. 


3 . According to the management, the two workmen dissuaded loaders from 
Xoing down the mine at the commencement of the third shift on 28th May, 1966 
with the result that the in - charge , Kanti Lal Mehta had to contact the Faridpur 
Police Station , and at the intervention of the officer - in - charge of the Police Station 
who came within a short time, the workmen were allowed to go down the mine 
and Neam Harljari and Ram Padarak Ram also went down the mine and joined 
their shift. For their misconduct they were chargesheeted on 29th May , 1966 . 
they submitted replies and were duly served with notices of enquiry, but they 
talled to attend the enquiry . The management denied that there was any 
collection of armed men at the office in the afternoon of 17th June, 1966 to scare 
away the two workmen from attending the enquiry . The management further 
denied having received any letter by registered post asking for a fresh date of 
enquiry . As the two workmen did not attend the enquiry , the enquiry was held 
et - parte , the charges were found proved by the enquiring officer , and on the 
basis of the report of the enquiring officer, the manager with the approval of 
the Agent passed the dismissal orders . The management therefore contend that 
the workmen are not entitled to any reller . 


4 . It appears from the evidence of Shri R . C . Thacker, the Agent of the 
Colliery that Khan Shramik Congress is the recognised union at Sarpi Kajora 
Colliery , The Agent stated that he was not aware that any workmen at Sarpi 
Kajora Colliery had become a member of the Colliery Mazdoor Union . It appears 
however , from the cross examination of MW 2 , Indra Deo P . Singh , the Labour 
Welfare Omcer , who held the enquiry, that the Colliery Mazdoor Union raised 
a number of disputes relating to workmen of Sarpi Kajora Colliery before the 
A . L . C ., Central, Raniganj, and one such dispute raised by the Colliery Mazdoor 
Union was referred to arbitration of Shri Chaddha on the basis of a memorandum 
of agreement between the management and the Colliery Mazdoor Union , and as 
the result of the award of the arbitrator 32 workmen who had been stopped 
from work by the management were reinstated with full back wages. Accordingly , 
the denial by the Agent about the existence of the Colliery Mazdoor Union at 
the Colliery must be considered unacceptable . It is possible that because the 
Colliery Mazdoor Union raised a number of disputes and at least in one of them 
the Colliery Mazdoor Union obtained a favourable award from the arbitrator , 
the management was not pleased with the Colllery Mazdoor Union and such 
workmen of the Colliery who had become members of that union . 


5 . At the same time there is no evidence to indicate that the proceedings 
against the two workmen , Neam Harijan and Ram Padarak Ram were started 
Because they had become members of the Colllery Mazdoor Union Neam Harlan 
deposed on behalf of the union and he admitted that some trouble had taken 
place at the commencement of the third shitt on 28th May, 1986 . He said that 
on that day the management had gtopped 4 loadert and 2 trammers from work , 
and when workomen collected at the pit head of Pit No. 3 at 12 midnight for 
the third shift of 28th May , 1986 , Neam Harijari geld to the in -charge . Kanti Lal 
Mehta , that the old wophets 4 .e . 4 loaders who had been topded from work , 
should be allowed to go down and work and that the new hands ghould not be 
allowed to work in their place , and that thereupon the in -charge telephoned to 
the Police Station and called the police officer: the officer in -charge of the Police 
Station aid not arrest Neain Harijan but took him from the pit head of Pit No 3 
to put head of Pit No. 2 and asked him to wait there , and after sometime he 
was also allowed to go dowh Pit No. 3 in order to join the shift. From the fact 
that the police oudcer did not arrest the two workmen , it would appear that the 
workmen had not taken recourse to physical violence í topping any workinen , 
but they raised the dispute tbatirg to the old workers belng allowed to work 
and so held up the progress of the work Admittedly the chargtsheets were received 
by the two workmen whd replies were submitted and notiets öt enquiry were 

Ivo Hecelved by the two Wohtien Arld th ew that the enquil War to be 
heid Jn the afternoon of 17th Juirre , 1986. According to Near Harijan he actually 
was goting along th Ram Padarak Rám to attend the enquiry when he saw a 


47 . . 1 


number of men armed with lathis , etc . outside the colliery office and they abused 
him and Bam Paderak Ram , and so out of fear he and Romi Padarak Ram tan 
way. If this part of the case of the workmen could be accepted , it would follow 
that the enquiry was not a proper one as the workmen had been deliberately 
stopped from attending the enquiry. But it appears that this allegation was made 
for the first time in he letter which Keshab Banerjee addressed to the A . L . C ., 
Central, Raniganj on 18th July , 1966 l. e . a month after the date of the enquiry . 
The union s case is that after the workmen had run away for fear of the armed 
men on 17th June, 1968 they went to the office of the Labour Enforcement 
Officer, Ukhra and reported to him , and that then they went to their union 
office at Ukhra and sent a letter by registered post stating the circumstances 
which had prevented them from attending the enguiry and requesting that another 
date might be Axed . But the Labour Enforcement Officer of Ukhra has not been 
called as a witness to prove this and there is nothing to show that a registered 
letter was sent on 17th June , 1966 describing the circumstances in which the 
workmen could not attend the enquiry and asking for another date . Neam 
Harijan produced a postal receipt dated 22nd June, 1986 Ext. 1, stating that this 
related to the registered letter which they had sent. But the copy of the Hindi 
letter which they sent has been marked 2 for identification and it does not relate 
to the circumstances in which the workmen could not attend the enquiry on 
17th June , 1966 and does not contain any prayer for Axing another date for the 
enquiry . It relates to Neam Harijan and some other mazdoors having been 
forcibly driven away from the dhowra on 21st June, 1966 , Neam Harijan stated 
in the letter that on that account he was not attending his shift on 22nd June, 1966 . 
Therefore Neam Hartjan s statement betore the tribunal that he went to join his 
shift on 22nd June, 1966 , but was prevented by the Agent and the Labour Welfare 
Offlcer , cannot be accepted as true. The letter marked 2 together with the postal 
receipt , Ext. 1 , relates to another incident which was also described by Neam 
Harijan in his evidence , namely that one Mukhdeo Harijan of Seetalpur Colliery 
came to see him at his dhowrah at Sarpi Kajora Colllery on 21st June , 1986 , and 
that seeing him , Kanti Lal Babu , Deonandan Singh , Chulhan and others said 
that a man from another colliery and another union had come to make trouble 
and so they assaulted him and thereupon Neam Harijan also ran away out of 
fear. Neam Harijan admitted that on 17th , 8th , 19th and 20th June he and 
Ram Padarak Ram regularly joined their shift at the colllery. 21st June, 1966 
was & rest day at the colliery and Ram Padarak Ram worked on 22nd June also . 
If the two workmen were thus allowed to attend their shift both before and 
after the scheduled time of the enquiry it is difficult to believe that they were 
forcibly prevented from attending the enquiry . If they had been thus prevented , 
it would be natural for them to complain verbally to the Manager or the Welfare 
Officer , but thete is no evidence that they did so . On the other hand , the Labour 
Welfare Officer said that he met Neam Harijan on 18th June , 1986 and asked 
him why he had not attended the inquiry ; and Neam made no complaint of 
having been prevented . I cannot therefore accept Neam s evidence that a letter 
explaining the circumstances in which the workmen did not attend the inquiry 
was sent from Ukhra . Thus, I must find that the two workmen were not pre 
vented from attending the enquiry but that they voluntarily kept away. 

8 . Accordingly , the enquiry must be held to be in order . The Welfare Officer 
has proved the proceedings of the et -parte inquiry , and the report which he sub 
mitted . The evidence recorded at the enquiry is sufficient for the finding made 
By the equiring officer namely that the two workmen dissuaded other workmen 
for some time from going down the mind and so interfered with the regular 
working of the mine and affected the output. That being so , the order of dismissal 
cannot be interferred with . 

7 . My award therefore is that the dismissal of Shri Neam Harijan and Shri Ram 
Padarak Ramni , M . C . loaders by the management of Sarpi Kajora Colllery with 
effect from 23rd June, 1966 was justified and the workmen are not entitled to 
any relief. 

( Sd.) S. K . SEN , 

Presiding Officer 

[No. 8 / 91/ 88 - LRII .) 
New Delhi, the 8th December 1967 
8 . 0 . 4527.- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 
( 14 bl 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribumal ( No . 2 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Bahhari Collery of Masers Ballhari Collèry Comp 
any (Private ) Limited , Post Office , Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their Managin 


- 


Agents, Khatau & Company ( Private ) Limited, Post Office Dhangar , District 
Dhanbad of the one part and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 5th December , 1967. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

(No. 2 ) AT DHANBAD . 
In the matter of a reference under Section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, 


REFERENCE No. 49 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Ballhari Colliery of Messrs . Ballhari Colliery 

Company ( P ) Limited , Post Office Kusunda , District Dhanbad and 
their Managing Agents , Khatau and Company ( P ) Limited , Post Office 
Dhansar , District Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Sri Nandagiri Venkata Rao - Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers - Sri S . R . P . Singh , Labour Officer. 
For the Workmen - Sri Gurbachan Singh , Vice -President and Sri S . V . 

Acharior , General Secretary of Hindusthan Khan Mazdoor Sangh . 
STATE ; Bihar, 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 20th November, 1967. 


AWARD 
T he Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Balihari Colllery of Messrs Ballhari 
Colliery Company ( P ) Limited , Post Office Kusunda , District Dhanbad and their 
Managing Agents , Khatau & Company ( P ) Limited , Post Once Dhansar, 
District Dhanbad of the one part and their workmen of the other part by its 
order No. 2 / 99 / 64 -LRII dated the 31st May, 1965 referred to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified 
in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of the Balthari Colllery of Messrs Ballhari 

Colllery Company ( P ) Limited and their Managing Agents , Khatau 
& Company ( P ) Limited were justified in dismissing , with effect 
from the 15th July , 1964 , Sarvashri Bandhu Lohar , Blacksmith , 
Govind Lohar , Blacksmith , Dukhi Shao , Hammerman , and Govind 

Lohar , Hammerman ? If not , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the 
reference as reference No. 95 of 1965 on Its Ale . The employers as well as the 
workmen Aled their statement of demands. While it was pending before the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad the proceedings was transferred 
to this Tribunal, hy the Central Government by its order No. 8 / 25 / 1967 -LRII 
dated 8th May , 1967 under section 33 ( B ) ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
Consequently , the reference is renumbered on the file of this Tribunal as reference 
No. 49 of 1967. 

3 . The affected workmen , Bandhu Lohar was working as a blacksmith , Govind 
Lohar also as a blacksmith , Dukhi Shao as a hammerman and Govind Lohar also 
as a hammerman , in the Ballhari Collicry of the employers and they will be 
hereinafter referred to as the affected workmen . On 11th June , 1964 they were 
served by the management of the employers with charge - -heets for assaulting the 
Agent Sri D . G . Gupte , Manager Sri C . S . Sharma and Assistant Manager Sri 
R . G . Jain and using Althy language against them . Simultaneously they were also 
suspended pending enquiry . On 12th June, 1964 all the four affected workmen 


SEC, 3( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2, 182: 


4765 


MILYYY 


LLLL 


- 


- 


submitted their explanations denying the charges and pleading not guilty . With 
notice to the affected workmen Sri O . P . Verma, C . P . O . conducted the enquiry 
on 16th June, 1964. On the same day the workmen submitted a joint representa 
tion to the manager complaining inter alia that they were not permitted to be 
represented by the Local Secretary of the Union and to examine the defence 
witnesses . The manager fixed 29th June, 1964 as the date for further enquiry and 
informed the affected workmen to produce their defence witnesses on that day 
and allowed them at the same time to be represented by the Local Secretary of 
the Union . Thereafter the affected workmen approached the Conciliation Officer 
on 16th July , 1964 aggrieved by the action of the employers suspending them 
for more than 10 days . After that date the management of the employers issued 
orders dismissing the ailected workmen from services with effect from 15th July , 
1964 . These facts are not controverted . 

4 . The case of the workmen is that the charges brought against the affected 
workmen were false and baseless , that the charges were vague and did not 
disclose any act of misconduct , that no enquiry was held on 29th June, 1964 as 
directed by the manager although the affected workmen , accompanied by the 
Local Secretary of the Hindusthan Khan Mazdoor Sangh duly presented them 
selves at the place and time fixed for the enquiry , that the enquiry held on 16th 
June, 1964 was coloured with prejudice and bias against the affected workmen 
and the procedure adopted therein was arbitrary in utter disregard of natural 
justice , that in the enquiry on 16th June. 1964 the request of the affected workmen 
to allow them to be represented through their co -worker and Local Secretary of 
the Union and for calling the two witnesses to delose in their defence was rejected , 
that the enquiry was a farce , in as much as , the affected Workmen were not 
permitted even to cross-examine the prosecution witnesses that the order of 
examination of witnesses in the enquiry caused prejudice to the affected workmen , 
that the enquiry was never completed nor did the eriquiry officer submit any 
report to the manager nor did he find the aceed workmen guilty of the charges 
and that the action of the management of the employers against the affected 
workmen was against the Standing Orders , equity and natural justice. The 
employers have pleaded in their defence that the further enquiry directed to be 
mads on 29th June , 1964 could not be held as the afected workmen and their 
representatives did not attend the enquiry , that in the enquiry held on 16th June , 
1964 the charges of misconduct against the affected workmen were proved beyond 
doubt, that the enquiry held was in accordance with the Standing Orders and 
principles of natural justice and that it was quite justified . In view of the 
pleadings the short question following for cleterinination is phether the enquiry 
held against the affected workmen was complete and was in accordance with 
the principles of natural justice . 

5 . The workmen were represented by Sri Gurbachan Singh and Sri S . V . 
Acharior , Vice President and General Secretary respectively of Hindusthan Khan 
Mazdoor Sangh and the employers by Sri S . R . P . Singh , Labour Officer . By 
consent of the employers Exts . W1( a ) to ( d ), Exts . W2( a ) to ( d ), Exts . W3( a ) to ( d ) , 
Ext. W4, Exts . W5 ( a ) to ( c ), Exts . W6, W7, W8, W9, W10 , W11, W12 , W13 (a ) to ( d ) 
were marked for the workmen . By consent of the workmen Exts . Mi( aj to ( d ) , 
M2( a ) to ( d ), M3 & M4 ( a ) to ( d ) were marked for the employers . On behalf of 
the workmen the witnesses wWi to WW5 were examined and Exts . W14 to W17 
were marked . On behalf of the employers the witnesses , MW1 to MW3 were 
examined and Exts . M5 to M15 were marked . 


6 . All the four affected workmen was served with charge - sheets on ilth June, 
1964 individually . The charge - sheets relating to the affected workmen , Bandhu 
Lohar is Ext. W1( a ), Govind Lohar is Ext. W1(b ) , Dukhi Shao is Ext. W1( c ) and 
Govind Lohar , hammerman is Ext . W1 ( d ) . The allegations against all the four 
affected workmen are that at about 1 P . M . on 6th June, 1964 when the Agent, 
D . G . Gupte , Manager , C . S . Sharma and the Assistant Manager , R . G . Jain 
came out of the mine, the aifected workmen Bandhu Lohar and the remaining 
four affected workmen barred their way , that the affected workman Bandhu 
Lohar caught hold of the arm of the Agent and assaulted him with a slap , and 
the three remaining affected workmen started shouting maro maro and attacked . 
him with sticks and that when the Manager and the Assistant Manager tried to 
save the Agent and intervene all the affected workmen manhandled them . Exts . 
W1( a ) to Wi( d ) correspond to Exts . M4 ( a ) to 14 / d ) . Through the charge -sheets 
the affected workmen were advised to submit their explanations within 48 hours 
Accordingly the four affected workmen submitted their explanations, Exts . W2( a ) 
to W2( d ), denying the charges and the allegations contained in them flatly and 
averring that the charges were brought against them vith a view to conceal the 
assault made by the Agent, D . G . Gupte on the affected workmen Bandhu Lohar 
at about 11 . 30 A .M . The manager requisitioned the services of O . P . Verma, 


4766 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART II 


An 


the Chief Personnel Officer from the Central Group Office to conduct the enquiry 
and issued notices Exts. W3 ( a ) to W3( 0 ) to the affected workmen informing 
them that the enquiry into the charges against them would be conducted by 
0 . P . Verma on 6th June, 1984 at 0 - 30 A - M , in the manager s office. All the four 
affected workmen attended the enquiry . The enquiry proceedings are Exts . M5 
to 112. During tne enquiry 0 . P . Verma got the statements recorded by A . D . 
Sukhla , the Welfare Officer who is exainined in this Tribunal as WW1. During 
the enquiry the statements of the Agent, D . G . Gupte , Manager, C . S . Sharma, 
Assistant Manage ! , R . G . Jain and the Puon Ram Chandra were recorded and 
they are respectively Exts . M9 to M12 The enquiry officer also recordel state 
ments of the four allected workmen and the statements are Exts . M5 to M8. 
A . D . Shukla , MW1 also has deposed that all the four affected workmen were 
present in the enquiry . He further deposed that in presence of the affected 
workmen he recorded statements of all witnesses as directed by the Enquiry 
Omcer , that the affected workmen and other witnesses admitted the statements 
to be correct when read over and explained , that the affected workmen refused 
to affix their thumb impressions and signatures to their statements and that 
J . B . Bhattacharya . a meinber of the cxecutive of Hindusthan Khan Mazdoor 
Sangh was also present at the enquiry . Out of the four affected workmen 
Bandhu Lohar , Dukhi Shao and Govind Mistry are exarnined before this Tribunal 
as WW2 to WW4. All of them have also admitted that they attended the enquiry 
held against them on ]8th June, 1964 . To this extent there is no dispute it 
also appears that soon after the enquiry the altected workmen represented 
to the manager that during the enquiry they were not allowed to be represented 
by their co -worker and Local Secretary of the Union , A . K . Das and to produce 
their defence witnesses. However , it is not denied by the affected workmen 
that through letters Exts. Ml( a ) to Mi( d ) dated 20th June , 1964 the 731ager 
gave them an opportunity to produce their witnesses and also to be represented 
by A . K . Das on 23rd June, 1964 at 3 . 30 P . M . at the manager s office . But they 
did not attend the enquiry , although Ram Chandra , Office Peon went to them to 
take them to the enquiry. It is not correct to say that there was 
no enquiry at all on 23rd June, 1964. The affected work nen Dukhi Sliao, WW3 
himself says that the enquiry was again held on 23rd June, 1964 and that they 
knew that the enquiry was to be held on that day. The Omce Peon , WW2 also 
has in his evidence that he went twice to the affected workmen inviting them 
to the enuiry on 23rd June, 1964 , but the affected workmen did not attend the 
enquiry. Again admittedly , the manager sent communications, Exts, M2( a ) to 
M2( d ) on 26th June, 1964 Axing the further date for continuance of the enquiry 
on 29th June , 1964 to produce their witnesses and also to be represented by 
A . K . Das. But the affected workmen did not attend the enquiry . Again , they 
cannot be believed that no enquiry was held on 29th June , 1964. In their subse 
quent correspondence with the manager or representation to the Conciliation 
Omçer I find no reference that they were willing to attend the enquiry on 23rd 
June, 1964 or 29th June, 1964 or they made any attempt to attend it. In spite of 
giving opportunity the affected workmen did not take advantage and refused 
to participate in the further enquiry . They themselves are to be blamed and 
not the employers , 

7 . Now it is to be seen if the enquiry held on 16th June, 1964 was complete 
and in accordance with the principles of natural justice . The contention of the 
workmen is that the enquiry was never completed and the enquiry officer did 
not submit his report to the manager. But this contention is against the record . 
The enuiry report is Ext . M13 . It is true that the enquiry officer is not examined , 
hut A . D . Shukla , MW1 has identified the signature of the enquiry officer on 
the report Ext . M13 . It is to be remeinbered that non - examination of the enquiry 
amicer cannot be fatal. The report is concluded with the statement that the 
high -handed attitude of the affected workmen could not be justified under any 
clrcumstance and , therefore, the enquiry officer suggested , that they should be 
dibinissed from service. Thus, there is no substance in the contention that there 
was no report of the enquiry officer or that the enquiry officer did not find the 
affected workmen guilty of the charges . During the enquiry , the Agent, Manager, 
Assistant Manager and Office Peon were examined to substantiate the charges 
brought against the affected workmen . Their statements Exts . M9 to M12 
are proved by MWI, who had recorded them under the direction and super 
vision of the enquiry officer. The statements Exts . M9 to M11 support 
the charge allegations. It is true that all the three witnesses are the injured 
persons . But that is no reason why thelr sworn testimony should not be believ 
ed . The affected workmen have simply denied the charge brought against them 
and deposed that at the material time they were engagent elsewhere . But they 
did not lead any evidence in support of their version of the case . It is true that 
the affected workmen were examined before the examination of the prosecution 


SEC , 8( il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 , 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4767 


witnesses and the procedure adopted is not commendable . But merely on that 
ground I cannot conclude that any prejudice was caused to the affected work 
men . They were given ample opportunity to cross -examine the prosecution 
witnesses and lead their defence . As a matter of fact also the prosecution witness , 
D . G . Gupte has been cross -examined by the affected workman , Govind Mistry . 
When the affected workmen deliberately declined to cross -examine the prosecu 
tion witnesses and lead their defence and on the material bcfore him the enquiry 
omcer found the charges as ostablished , I do not And any reason to interfere 
with the findings or the subsequent action taken by the employers based on 
ilor findings. I am not to sit over the enquiry as an appellate authority and 
enter into minute appreciation of evidence . 

8 . An objection also is taken that the order of dismissal was not correct. In 
the charge - sheets para 27 ( 5 ) of the Certified Standing Orders is referred to . But 
it is a mistake for the para 29 ( 5 ) of the Certified Standing Orders, which deals 
with the misconduct, including in it drunkenness , fighting, riotous or disorderly 
and indecent behaviour. When the facts mentioned in the charge -sheet are clear 
and unambiguous mere wrong mention of the provision of the Certified Standing 
Orders does not vitiate the charges . Ext. M14 is the letter through which the 
manager sought permission from the Director, Central Administrative Once for 
dismissal of the affected workmen on the enquiry report, Ext. M13 and the 
permission accorded by the Director is Ext. M15 . It is argued that a Director 
is not an owner competent to accord the approval in terms of Para 30 of the 
Certified Standing Orders . I cannot agree that a Director cannot be the owner . 
It is also contended that the order of dismissal and contravened Section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , inasmuch as it was passed during the pendency 
of the Conciliation Procecdings before the Conciliation Officer, Against their 
suspension , the affected workmen , through their representative approached the 
Conciliation Officer by means of the application , Ext. W9 dated 16th July 1964 
and the orders of dismissal of the affected workmen are said to have been receiv 
ed by them on 18th July 1964 and , thus, it is urged that the orders of dismissal 
should be deemed to have been passed during pendency of the conciliation pro 
ceedings and hit by Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. But the 
orders of dismissal, Exts . W3 ( a ) to W3( d ) are dated 15th July 1964 and there is 
absolutely no material to suggest that they were not passed on 15th July 1964 , 
before the Conciliation Omcer received the letter, Ext. W9 on 16th July 1064 . 
For all the above reasons I find no substance in the objections raised on behalf 
of the workmen , 

9 . I , therefore , hold that the management of the Ballhari Colliery of Messrs 
Ballharl Coal Co. ( P ) Ltd ., and their Managing Agents , Khatau & Company 
( P ) Limited were justified in dismissing with effect from 15th July 1984 the 
affected workmen Bandhu Lohar. Blacksmith , Govind Lohar, Blacksmith , Dukhi 
Shao , Hammerman and Govind Lohar, Hammerman and , consequently , they are 
not entitled to any relief. The award is made accordingly and submitted under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

(Sd.) N . VENKATA Rao . 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

APPENDIX I 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 21AT 

DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No . 49 OP 1967 
Employers in relation to the Balihart Colliery of Messrs Balihart Coal Co. (P ) Ltd . 

P . O . Kusunda , Distt . Dhanbad . 

AND 

Their workmen 
List of Documents Admitti in Evidence for the Employers 
Disiin Description of document & date 

Date of Whether 
guishing 

Admission admitted 
mark or 

after or 
number 

without 
objection . 


I 


3 


Ex.Mi (a ) 
Ex .MI (b ) 


Manager s letter dt. 20 - 6 -64 to Bandhu Lohar , 
Do. 

to Govind Lohar, hammerman , 


8 - 8 -67 
Do. 


Almitted , 

Do, 


4768 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


3 


4 


Do. 


8 - 8 -67 
Do. 


Admitted 

Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


Do . 
Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Ex.MI (c ) Manager s letter dt. 20 - 6 - 64 to Govind Lohar , blacksmith 
Ex.MI (d ) 

to Dukhi Shao 
Ex.M2 (a ) Manager s letter dt. 26 - 6 -64 Bandhu Lohar 
Ex .M2 (b ) 

Do. 

to Govind Lohar , blacksmith 
Ex.M2 (C ) 

Do. 

to Dukhi Shao 
Ex .M2 (d ) 

Do. 

to Govind Lohar 
Ex .M3 Joint representation dt. 23 - 6 -64 by S /Sri Dukhi Shao , 

Bandhu Lohar, Govind Lohar and Govind Lohar 

hammerman . 
Ex.M4 (a ) Charge - sheei dt. 11 -6 -64 issued to Bandhu Lohar , 
Ex .M4 (b ) 

to Dukhi Shao 
Ex .M4 (C ) 

to Govind Lohar, blacksmith 
Ex .M4 (d ) 

Do. 

to Govind Lohar, hammerman 
Ex .M5 Statement dt. 16 - 6 -64 of Bandhu Lohar . . . 
Ex .M6 Statement of Sri Dukhi Shao dt. 16 - 6 - 64 
Ex. M 

Statement dt. 16 -6 - 64 of Sri Govind , blacksmith 
Ex.MS Statemeiut dt. 16 -6 - 64 of Sri Govind Lohar , hammerman 
Ex. 113 Statement dt. 16 -6- 64 of Sri D . G . Gupte, Agent . 
Ex. 1. 0 Statement of Sri C . S . Sharma, Mager st. 36 - 6 - 64 . 
Ex .MTI Statement dt. 16 -6 -64 of Sri R . G . Jam , Assti. Manager 
Ex . 11: 2 Statement dt. 23 -6 -64 of Ram Chandra , office peon . 
Ex.M13 Enquiry Report of the concerned workman reported by 

0 . P . Verma dt. 4 - 7 - 64 addressecl to manager . 
Ex .M14 Letter dt. 9 - 7 -64 of the colliery manager to Director re 
garding dismissal of workmen 

. . 
Ex ... 115 Letter dt. II- 7 - 64 to Manager regarding dismissal order 

from Director, 


Do. 
Do. 
23-8 -67 On 


Do. 
Do. 
proved 
Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


De. 


Do . 


Do. 
Do 


Do. 


Do. 
D3. 
Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do, 
De . 


List of Documents admitted in evidence for the Workmen 


Description of document & date 


Dale of 
admission 


Distin 
guishing 
mark Or 
number 


Whether 
admitted 
after or 
without 
objection 


ANAN 


Ex . W I ( a ) 
Ex.W Ilbj 


8 - 8 - 67 
Do. 


Admitted 

Do . 


Ex. WI (C ) 


Do . 


Do. 


Ex.W1 (d ) 


Du . 


Charge - sheet No. CH /OM / 851/6 /64 dt. 11 -6 - 5 .4 
Do . No. CH /OM /849 /6nt 

dt . U - 6 -64 
No. CH OM /848 / 0 /61 

dt. Il- 6 -64 
D . 

No. CH /OM / 550 654 

t. 11- 6 -64 
Reply of charge -sheet dt. 13 - 6 -64 . 
of Sii Bandhu Lohar. 

Do. Govind Lohar št. 12.- 6 .6 
Do. Dukhi Slao dt. 12- 6 - 64 , 
Do. Govind Lohar dt. 1.2-6 -64, 


Ex .W2(a ) 


3 8 - 17 


Do. 


Ex .W 2lb ) 
Ex .W2(C ) 
Ex .Wzid ; 


Do. 
Do . 


Dei. 


Do. 


Do . 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


4769 


HLAVY 
VAL 

- 

.. 


Description of document and date 


Distingui 
shing mark 
of number 


Date of 
admission 


Whether 
admitted 
after or 
without 
objection 


Ex.W3(a ) 


8 - 8- 67 


Admitted 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Ex .W3( b ) 
Ex ,W3(c ) 
Ex .W3( d ) 
Ex .W4 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


Dc. 


Do. 


Do. 


Ex.W5(a ) 
Ex. W 5 (b ) 
Ex.Ws( c ) 
Ex. W6 
Ex .W7 


Ex.W8 


Ex .W9 
Trix .W10 


Manager s letter dt. 13 - 6 -64 
to concerned workman , No. CSS /ONI/ 869/6 /64 

CSS /OM /865, 6 ;64 
Do. CSS /OM : 863/6 /64 

Do. CSS /OM /864/6 / 64 
Joint pulition or workmen dt. 16 - 6 -64 addressed to 

manager 
Letter No. ENQ -CH / 93716 /64 dt. 16 - 6 - 54 of Manager. 

Do. ENQOM /938/ 6 /64 

Do . ENQION 939/6 /64 
Joint letter of workmen dt. 27 - 6 - 64 to Manager 
Letter No. KL - 2 /D (620 )/6 . dt. 9 - 7 -64 

of General Secretary to Manager. 
Letter No : B . L . D /627/64 dt. 15 - 7- 64 of General Secre 

tary to Manager. 
Leite No. B . L .D / 2 (629):64 dt. 16 - 7 -64 of General 

Secretary to C . O . ( C ) Danbad . 
Letter No . D . 144 / 1 (194 )/64 at, 16 - 7 -64 of Conciliation 

Officer , Dhanbad - 1 . 

Fixing the date for conciliation . 
Letter dt. 20 - 7 -64 of the General Secretary to Concilia 

tion Officer (Central ) Dhanbad - I 
Lerter dt. 25 - 7 - 64 of the Conciliation Officer (Central) 

Dhanbad - I to Manager . 
Letter dt. 15 - 7 -64 of manager to Shri Govind Lohar, 
hammerman . 

Do . to Govina Lohar, blacksmith 
Do. to Dukhi Shao , hainmerman . 

Do. to Bandhu Lohar, blacksmith 
Certified copy of the standing orders. 
Letter dt. 20 - 7 -64 of Sri S .V . scharior , General Sec 

retary to Manager , Balihai Colliery 
Joint petition dt. 16 - 6 - 6 .4 of the concerned workmen to ? 

the enquiry officer Balihari Colliery . 
Letter ut. 24 -6 -64 01 Shri Govind Lohar blacksmith to 

manager. Balıhari Colliery , 


Dc. 
Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Ex.WII 
Ex.W12 
Ex.W13 ( a ) 
Ex .W13 (b ) 
Ex .W130) 
Ex ,W13 ( d ) 
Ex W14 
Ex .W15 


Do. 
Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


One Proof. 


Do. 


Ex.W16 


Do. 


Do . 


Ex.W177 


Do . 


De, 


(Sd ai Industrial 
Dhanbad . 


( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO 
Presiding Officer , CentralGvernment Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad , 
APPENDIX II 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ) 

AT DHANBAT . 

REFRENCE NO . 49 OF 196m. 
Employers in relation to Balhari Colliery ofMs. Balihaii Coal Co. (P ; Ltd .. 

P . O . Kusunda , Distt . Dhanbad . 

AND 

Their workmen . 
List of Witenesses Examined for the Employers. 


w 


Naine of witness 


No. of 
witnes 


Date of exa 
mination 


MWI 
MW2 
W3 


. Sri A . D . Shukia 
- Sri Ramchandra 
, Sri D .G . Gupte 


23 - 8 - 67 
Do. 
Do . 


4770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 25, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART 11.-- 


NE 


List of Witness Examined for the Workmen 


No. of 
witness 


Namoi witness 


Date of 
examination , 


24 - 8 - 67 


WWI 
WW2 
WW3 
ᏔᏔ4 
Wws 


Shri $ . V . Acbariar 
Shri Bandhu Lohar 
ShriDukhi Shao 
Shri Govind Mistry 
Shri . Bhaclacharjee 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. 
Du . 


(Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
CentralGovernment Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbadi 


No. 2 / 99 / 64 - LRII .), 
New Delhi, the 14th December 1967 
S . O . 4528 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal No. 2 , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Digwadih Colliery of Mossrs . Tata Iron and Steel 
Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Office Jealgora , District Dhanbad , and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 12th December, 
1967. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2) 

AT DHANBAD . 
In the matter of a reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1947. 

REFERENCE No. 19 or 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs . Tatu Iron and 

Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora , District 
Dhanbad . 

AND 


vorkmen , 


- DAY 


PRESENT : 

Sri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding omcer. 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers -- Sri S . N Singh , A . C . P . & W . O . 
For the Workmen - - Sri Pritish Chanda, President, Tata Colliery Workers " 

Union . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 4th Decen .ber 1967 


SCHEDULE 


The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Digwadih Collery of Messrs . Tata Iron 
and Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Omice Jealgora , District Dhanbad , 
and their workomen by its order No . 2 / 4 / 65 -LRII dated the 8th February , 1965 
referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Sec 
tion 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 for adjudication the Jlspute in 
respect of the matters specifted in the schedule annever thereto . The schedule 
Is extracted below : 


SCIEDULE 
- Whether the dismissal with effect from the 10th October, 1964 , of 

Sarvashri Muneshwar , Hari Ahir , Jagarnatių Coalfield Recruiting 


Seç . (4 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECLMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


4771 


Organisation Miners of the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs . Tata Iron and 
Şteel Company Limited by the management of the said colliery was 

justified ? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the 
reference as reference No. 22 of 1965 on its Ale . The workmen flled their state 
ment of demands. While it was pending before the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad the proceeding was transterred to this Tribunal, by the 
Central Government by its order NO. 8 / 26 / 67- LRII dated 8th May , 1967 .under 
Section 33 ( B ) ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. Consequelltly , the reference 
ts renumbered on the Ale of this Tribunal as reference No . 19 of 1967. The 
employers also filed their statement of demands. 

3. The affected workmen , Muneshwar , Hari Ahir and Jagarnath (hereinafter 
referred to as the atfected workmen ) Were Coal Recruiting Organisation Miners 
of the Digwadih Colliery of the opposite party . As a result of a domestic 
enquiry the three affected workmen were dismissed from services with effect from 
10th October , 1964 . The case of the workmen is that the dismissal of the 
affected workmen was the outcome of the victimisation policy of the opposite 
party , in as much as they took a leading part in organising the C . R . Q . Labourers 
under the Tata Colliery Workers Union and that the domestic enquiry was 
nothing but a show and it was held in a perfunctuary manner against all the 
accepted principles of natural justice . The defence pleaded by the employers 
is that they are unaware if any of the affected workmen was a member of any 
union on or before 10th October , 1964 , that the allegation of victimisation is 
baseless and that the enquiry held was in conformity with the Certified Standing 
Orders of the colliery and prescribed procedure . The employers also took 
oblection that the dispute involved in the reterence was an individual dispute 
and not Industrial Dispute . 

4 . The workmen were represented by Sri Pritish Chanda , President, Tata 
Colliery Workers Union and the employers by Sri S N Singh , A . C . P . & W . O . 
By consent of the workmen Exts . Mi to M12 were marked for the employers 
and by consent of the employers Exts . Wi to W3 were marked for the workmen . 
On behalf of the workmen four witnesses were examined and Exts . W4 to W7 
were marked 

5 . It appears that sometime after 1961, majority of the C . R . O . workmen became 
members in the Union of the I.N . T . U . C . and remained so till the beginning of 
1963 , when they started becoming members of the union belogglog to U . T . U . C . 
One of the affected workman , Muneshwar, who examined himselt 28 wwi, has 
deposed that since 1963 he was an active member of the U . T . U . C . Union , writing 
applications on behalf of the member workmen in respect of their grievances and 
organising meetings etc . He was also enrolling members. He had himself become 
member and pald the subscription and also had collected subscriptions from the 
other two affected workmen , Jagarnath and Hari Ahir. He has identified the 
countertolls of the receipts , Ext. W4 relating to Jagarnath , Ext. W5 relating to 
Hari Ahir and Ext. W6 relating to himself and also identified his signatures on 
there as Collector of the subscriptions. The affected workman , Jagarnath also 
examined himself as WW3 and deposed that he, Muneshwar and Hari Ahir are 
members of the U . T . U . C . branch since 1963 and that Muneshwar had collected 
gubscriptions relating to his membership . He has also identified the countertoil 
of his receipt, Ext. WW4. Ani Sarkar, the Secretary of the U . T . U . C . Union is 
examined as WW4. He has described the procedura relating to enrolment of 
members and collection of subscriptions from them . According to him the printed 
receipt books are distributed among his workers they collect subscriptions from 
the individual members issuing receipts alongwith their their signatures and submit 
the countertoil books alongwith the subscriptions collected , to him . Thus names . 
of such members are entered into the membership register according to convenience . 
He further deposed that if there is a dispute regarding membership of any individual, 
the counterfoll is more authentic than the membership register . The three witnesses 
are sufficiently cross -examined , but nothing is elicited to affect their veracity . The 
fallure report of the Conciliation Officer , Ext . W ! shows that the Secretary, Tata 
Colllery Workers Union represented the case of the affected workmen before him . 
There is absolutely no rebutal evidence in this respect . Further, the employers 
had pleaded merely their ignorance about the affected workmen being members 
of the UT, U . C . Branch . Thus, I do not find any substance in the cbjection raised 
by the employers that the dispule involved in the reference was not an industrial 
dispute 

6 . The chargesheets issued to the three affected workmen are Ext: M1, M ?? 
and M :3. They are issued on 3 / 5 - 9 - 1964 . The allegation made in the chulgesheets 


4772 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 ,- 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART II 


was that on 31st August, 1984 at about 10 - 30 p .m . in the B shift duty the three 
affected workmen assaulted one Ramnarayan , C . R . O . Labour while on duty under 
ground in 16A seam near Ilth level of 125 HP, dip , and that the act of the 
affected workmen amounted to serious misconduct under Clause 19 ( 5 and 19 ) 
of the Certified Standing Orders making them lable for dismissal from service . 
The three affected workmen submitted their explanations, denying the charge , 
allegation and stating that the chargęsheets were issued to them with a mala fide 
intention of victimising them . The Welfare Officer issued notices , Exts, M4, M5 
and M6 to the affected workmen Axing the date and time of the enquiry and 
calling upon them to attend it. Ext, M7 is a notice for the enquiry on a subse 
quent date , Ext. M8 is the enquiry proceedings , Ext, MO is the enquiry report 
and Exts . M10 , M11 and M12 are the orders issued to the affected workmen dis 
missing them from service with effect from 10th October, 1984. This material 
shows that during the enquiry 5 witnesses were examined for the prosecution in 
addition to the injured Ram Narayan and that the affected workmen produced 
9 witnesses in their defence. They declined to produce Marat, Ramsingasah , Adya , 
Laxman and Ramadhar whom they had cited earlier as their defence witnesses. 
The enquiry officer concluded that he was not convinced with the evidence of 
detence and found that the charge against the affected workmen stood fully 
proved . He also opined that the gharge being serious the affected workmen 
deserved the extreme punishment. The injured workman , Ramnarain has in his 
evidence that Hari Ahir , Manraj, started the trouble, thereafter Muneshwar and 
Jagarnath came from 13th level and started telling others to beat him and , thus , 
all the four started assulting him and threw him on the track . Bhagi deposed 
that Ramnarain was assulted by Hari, Manraj, Jagarnath and Muneshwar. Jamuna 
Ashir is also an eye witness of the occurrence and he deposed that Munshwar , 
Jagarnath , Harl and Manraj assulted Ramnarain . Mohamad Mia No . I did not 
see Ramnarain actually being beaten but saw him injured on his forehead and 
bleeding. He, Bhagi and two others carried Ramnarain to the main line curve . 
Mohamad Mia No. 2 also saw Ramnarain bleeding with a head injury near the 
track . Sanat Kumar Laha, the compounder of Digwadith dispensary , deposed 
that at about 12 -30 a .m . he was called for giving medical aid to Ramparain . He 
saw Injury on right side of his nose and lip . Against this prosecution the evidence 
the defence witness Rambrich has stated that Ramnarain and Manraj started quar 
reling and assulting each other and Ramnarain got serious injuries . He also spoke 
of the presence of Hart on the scene. The defence witness , Lachran did not see 
ony assult and knew nothing about the occurence . Parsuram Tewari , also examined 
on behalf of the affected workmen , deposed that he saw Ramnarain lying with 
Injury on his forehead and on enquiry came to know that Manraj and Ramnarain 
quarreled for a tub during which Manraj had assulted Ramnarain . R . N . Chakra . 
borty , a mining sirdar , also a defence witness , said that he found Ramnarain lying 
near the siding line of No . 11 level with injuries on his forehead. N . C . Majhi, 
an overman , saw Ramnarain being carried and from a stone cutter learned that 
Manraj has assulted Muneshwar . Ramrat Pandey, saw Ramparain being carried 
by Bhagi and Lachran . He also saw bleeding injuries on the forehead of Ram 
narain . Bhagi and Lachran told him that Manraj has assulted Ramnarain . 
Shyamjit has in his evidence that he saw a crowd at the main line curve and 
learnt that Manraj had assulted Ramnarain Tirath says that Ramnarala and 
Manraj started a quarrel over loading the 11th tub , they started fighting and in 
that Ramnarain got injuries. The last defence witness Ramji, also deposed that 
Manraj and Ramnarain started quarreling , but he did not see how Ramnarain 
got injuries. From the defence evidence also it is corroborated that Ramnarain 
had sustained injuries. Having gone through the evidence of the defence witnesses , 
I find that it corroborates to an extent the prosecution case . It does not speak 
about the presence of the affected workmen , but it does not categorically state 
that they were not present on the scene of occurrence and were present at any 
other place , I am not expected to appreciate the evidence critically as an appellate 
court and come to my own conclusion . 


7 . It is argued for the affected workmen that the management did not apply 
its mind to the explanations submitted by the affected workmen to the chargesheets 
served on them before making up its mind to proceed with the enquiry . It is 
pointed out that the explanation of the affected workmen were submitted on 
9th September, 1964 while two notices , Exts. M4 and M6 were prepared on the 
same date and the notice, Ext. M5 much earlier to it . It is also observed that out 
of the four workmen assaulting Ramnarain , the workmen , Manraj, is exonerated 
and only the three affected workmen were proceeded against , that the joint 
enquiry against the three affected workmen vitiated the enguiry and that the findings 
of the enquiry officer were peryerse . I do not And any substance in the objections 
raised . As I have already pointed out, it cannot be said that the enquiry officer 


1 EC , 


! HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1987/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


477 


had no material at all before him to support his Andings . The affected workmen 
cross - examined the prosecution witnesses at a great length and , as such , there 
is no basis for complainant that the affected workmen were not given opportunity 
to cross - examine the prosecution witnesses or to lead their defence . It is argued 
that the enquiry officer did not discuss the evidence in detail. The report of the 
enquiry officer should not be judged as a judgement of a court of law . I also do 
not And any force in the objection that the injury certifcates relating to Ramnarain 
are not produced , when the defence witnesses themselves conceded Rannarain 
having received head injuries. Under clause 19 ( 5 of 19 ) of the Certifed Standing 
Orders fighting is misconduct to be visited with the penalty of dismissal, I do not 
And any flaw in the departmental enquiry conducted against the affected workmen 
or in the punishment imposed on them . In this view , I find no roof to inter 
that the action of the employers was mala fide with the intention of victimising 
the affected workmen . 

8 . I. therefore , And that the dismissal of the affected workmen , Muneshwar , 
Harl Ahir and Jagarnath Coalfield Recruiting Organisation Miners of the Digwadih 
Colliery of Messrs. Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited by the management of 
the said colliery , with effect from 10th October , 1964 was justifed , and , conse 
quently , the affected workmen are not entitled to any rellet. The award is made 
accordingly and submitted under Section 13 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government, Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 
APPENDIX I 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

(No. 2 ) AT DHANBAD 


REFERENCE No. 19 OF 1967 


Employers in relation to Digwadih Colliery of M /s. Tata Iron & Steel Co. Lt.1., PO 
Jcalgora , Distt. Dhanbad , 

AND 

Their workman 
List ofdocuments alinitted in evidozce for the Employers 


Distinguishing mark or 

number 


Description of documents & 


date 


Date of Whether 
admission adini tted ! 

afler or 
without 
objection 


Ex. M . I 


, 


. 


17 - 7 - 67 Admitted , 


Ex. M . 2 


. 


. 


Do. 


Ex. M . 3 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. Chargesheet No. 399 dated 3 / 5 - 9 - 64 issucd 

to Shri Muneshwar C . R . O . together with 

its reply . . . . . . 
. Chargesheet No. 398 dt. 3 /5 - 9 -64 issued to 

to Shri Hari Ahir , C . R . O . Labour together 

with its reply . . . . . . 
. Chargesheet No. 379 dt. 3 / 5 - 9 -64 issued to 

Sri Jagannath , C . R . O . Labour together 

with its reply . . . . . 
, Letter No. 371 dt. 9 - 9 - 64 to Sri Muncshwar 

to call for enquiry . . . . 
., Letter No. 309 dt. 315 -9 -64 to Sri Hari 
Letter 

Ahir to call for an enquiry . 
Letter No. 390 dt. 9 - 9 - 64 to Sri Jagarnath , 

C .R . O . Labour to call for an enquiry . 
E . Letter No. Dig /WO( P ) 374 /66 dt. 14 - 9 -64 

issued to S / Shri Hari Ahir , Jagarnath 
and Muneshwar , . . . . 


. 


. 


Ex. M . 5 


. 


.. 


Ex, M . 7 


. 


4774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


17-7-67 


Admitted 


Ex. M . 8 
EX. M . 9 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Do . 


Enquiry proceedings in 48 pages , 
, Recommendation of the manager for dis 

missing the workmen . . . . 
Copy of letter No. AJG /31/2388 /64 dt. 

5 - 10 - 64 . . . . . . 
. Copy of letter No. AJG / 31/2387 /64 dt, 

5 - 10 - 64 , . . 
Copy of letter No. AJG /31/2386 /64 dt. 

5 - 10 -64 . . . . . . 


Do . 


Ex. M . II 


, 


. 


Ex. 11. 12 


. 


. 


List of document admitted in evidence for workman 


Distinguishing 
mark of number 


Description of document and date 


Date of Whether 
admission admitted 

after or 
without 
objection 


WI 


. 


. 


7 - 8 -67 Admitted 


Ex , W2 


. 


, 


Do , 


Do . 


. 


. 


Do. 


Ex . W4 


. 


. 


, Copy of management s note before the 

Conciliation Officer dt. 10 - 12 -64 , 
. Fuilure report of the conciliation in orl 

gual , , , , , , 
. Copy of the management s letter No. ĮMB/ 

479 / 14767 dt. 13 / 14 - 11- 64 from C . M . E . 
TISCO to Conciliation Officer (C ) 

Dhanbad 
Counterpart of the membership report No. 

8399 of Sri Jagannath . . . . 
Counterpart of the membership report No. 

8390 of Alta Şingh , . . . 
. Counterpart of the membership receipt No. 

8392 of Sri Muneshwar . . . 
Copy of 
Copy of the joint representation by C .R . O . 

Labour . . . . . . 


0 , 


On proxed 
of WWI 

Do. 


Do. 


Ex . W 6 


. 


. 


Do . 


Do. 


.W7 


. 


. 


Do. On proved of 

WW2 


(Sd .) N , VENKATA RAO , 


Presiding Officer, 

Central Government 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad 


Sec. ? (ii)] 


. 


OF 


r . 


- 


- 


APPENDIX II 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 


REFERENCE No. 19 OF 1967 
Employers in relation to Digwadili Colliery of M /s. Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., P . O . Jealgora, 
Distt, Dhanbad . 

AND 

Their Workman 
List of witnesses Examined for the Employer 


No. of witneses 


Name of witness 


Date of examination 


NIL 


List of witnesses Examined for the workman 


No. of witness 


Namc of witness 


Dath of Examination 


WWI , 
WW2 . 
WW 3 . 
WV4 . 


Muneshwar Kumar 
Bindeshwari Prasad 
Jagannath . . 
Anil Sarkar 


7 - 8 -67 
7 - 8 -67 
7 - 8 -67 
7 - 8 -67 


. 


— 


- - 


- - 


( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 
Presiding Officer , 

Central Government 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, 

DHANBAD . 

[ No . 2 / 4 / 85 -LRII. ) 


S . O . 4529 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Ardhogram Khas Colliery, Post Office Andhogram , District 
Bankura and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on 
the 8th December, 1967 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 11 OF 1967 
PARTT : 
Employers in relation to the Ardhogram Khas Colliery, 

AND 
Their workmen 


PRESENT : 


Shri S . K . Sen - Presiding Oncer . 


APPEARANCEB : 

On behalf of Employers - Shri Birendra Nath Sanyal, Advocate . 
On behalf of Workmen - Shri B . Małkhandy Vice - President, Colliery 

Mazdoor Sabha . 


- 


4776 


THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1987 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mines 

AWARD 
By Order No. 8 / 123 / 66 - LRII dated 3rd February 1967, the Central Government 
l eferred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Ardhogram Khas Colliery , P . O . Ardhogram , Distt . Bankura , and their work 
men in respect of the matters specified in the following schedule : 
" Whether alternative jobs were available on the closing of Archoucani 

Khas Colliery on the 10th March , 1965 ? If so , whether the 101 -ab 
sorption of the retrenched workers to the said jobs was justified : 11 

not, to what relief are they entitled ?" 
2 . According to the case of the union , the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Raniganj, 
the work in the mine of Ardhogram Khas Colliery as stopped by the order of 
an Inspector of Mines with clfect from 10th March , 1965 . The stoppage was 
ordered because there was an explosion underground owing to inflammable gas 
having collected and caught fire on 8th March , 1965 . When the work was stopped , 
195 workinen were working in the colliery ; they reported for duty for some days 
regularly but their attendance was not recorded and they were not given any 
lay - off benefit. On 15th March , 1965 the management gave notice on all the 
workmen retrenching them or terminating their services . But about that time 
the management engaged two contractors for working a quarty situated close to 
the incline where work had been stopped , and the contractors were allowed to 
engage their own workman and none of the 195 retrenched workmen were emp 
loyed in that job . Work in the incline was started again in the first or second 
week or May, 1965 and about 120 of the retrenched workmen were re - employed , 
after being given notice to report for duty , but 60 or 70 persons were not given 
employment even then . The union claims wages from 10th March 1965 to 12th 
May 1965 for the 120 workmen who were re - employed when the working of 
the incline was started again in May, 1965, and full wages from 10th March 1965 
upto date for the 60 or 70 workmen who were not re - employed on the reopening 
of work in the incline, 


3 . The case was fixed for hearing on 27th September 1967 after waiting for 
some months for written statements ; the union Alcd its written statement on 22nd 
September 1067 and the management did not Alle their written statement at all. 
The date of hearing was shifted from 27th September to 9th October 1967 at the 
prayer of the union , Thereafter a representative of the management appeared 
for further adjournment and the matter was adjourned to 16th November 1967 
for hearing . On 16th November 1967 the representative of the management again 
Aled an application for time, stating that as the mine was closed the management 
had not been able to collect the necessary papers . Accordingly , the hearing was 
adjourned to 4th December 1967 with the warning that no more adjournment 
would be given in any circumstances . But on 4th Decemher 1967 the representa 
tive of the management again filed a petition for adjournment, and when that was 
rejected the management withdrew from the hearing . The tribunal has therefore 
been handicapped by not having direct evidence of the relevant facts for a proper 
decision of the reference . 

4 . It should be mentioned that after the working of the mine had been re 
started on the 10th or 12th of May . 1965 it was closed down again with effect from 
30th September , 1965 and the working of the colliery has not yet been resumed . 
A dispute over the closure of the colliery with effect from 30th September, 1965 
was referred to adjudication by a Government order dated 1st April 1966 -LRII 
dated 6th July 1966 , Reference Case No. 113 of 1966 being started thereon . An 
award was passed in that case on 2nd March 1967. Shri Robin Chatterjee , Vice 
President of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha has produced a copy of that award and 
has referred to it. The dispute in the present case arose much earlier but the 
reference was made later ; the reason is said to be that the management gave an 
understanding that the dispute would be amicably settled and so delayed the 
conciliation proceedings. The union appears to have dropped the matter at one 
stage, for the failure report shows that the ispute was started afresh on a fresh 
complaint made by the Vice - President of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha dated 18th 
May 1966 . 

5 . It appears from the award of the Reference Case No. 113 of 1966 that the 
mine was a seasonal mine, work thcrein being stopped during the rainy season 
from 15th June to 30th September or 31st October each year, and the workmen 
excepting some of the Supervisory staff and office staff were appointed on a 
temporary basis and discharged when the working of the mine was closed down 


SLG. 3 /11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4777 


+ 


but re - appointed with the opening of the next season if they presented themselves 
for work . In this case Shri Robin Chatterjee , Vice - President of the union is the 
only witness examined , and his statement that in 1965 the Mines Department gave 
permission to work the incline during the rainy season also , goes to show that 
in previous years the work in the incline was stopped during the rainy season . 
Shri Chatterjee said that in previous vears , the quarry was worked in the rainy 
season , and 100 — 120 of the incline workmen were employed in the quarry . Thus 
he sought to claim continuous service . But in the comments of the Union sub 
mitted by him to the Conciliation Officer (copy attached to the failure report ) 
it is recited that " the workers came to know that the quarry which was suspended 
from its work for several years was going to be started with new man and con 
tractors " . So there could not have been any employment in the quarry during 
the rainy season for several years before 1965 . In the notices of termination of 
service which were issued by the management on 15th March 1965 , ( collectively 
marked Ext . 2 ) , it appears that the workmen were divided in two categories namely 
those who were purely temporary and had put in less than 3 months service , and 
those who had not completed one year s service and who were offered one week s 
wages in lieu of notice . In all these notices not one of the workers was recognised 
as a permanent workman . None of the workmen has appeared before the tribu 
nal as a witness . Possibly the workmen no longer have any interest in the 
Reference case . 

6 . Retrenchment as defined in clause oo of Sec . 2 of Industrial Disputes Act 
includes termination of service for any reason whatever otherwise than as punish 
ment by way of disciplinary action or termination of service on the ground of 
continued ill health . Therefore even temporary workman whose service has been 
terminated may be said to be retrenched , and though not entitled to retrench 
ment lyr.nefit under Sec. 25F of the Act , may claim re - employment under provi 
sions vi Sec. 25H of the Act . The question therefore is whether alternative jobs 
were arrailable when the incline of the Ardhogram Khas Colliery was closed down 
by the order of the Mines Inspector on 10th March , 1965 . Shri Robin Chatter 
jee has said that on the closure of the incline the management engaged two con 
tractors , Milkhi Ram Pandit and Panchkari Chatterjee , to work a quarry situated 
near the incline and that these contractors engaged between them about 70 or 80 
men , but they were their own men and not the old employees of the mine who 
had been retrenched with effect from 10th March 1965 . Shri Robin Chatterjee 
stated that contractors started work from 11th March , 1965. The documentary 
evidence produced in the case however does not support this statement. A 
memorardum dated 22nd March 1965 bearing the thumb impressions of 30 to 60 
workmen was submitted through the union to the Conciliation Officer , Raniganj. 
A copy of the memorandum is Ext. 4 . Therein there is no mention of any contrac 
tors being employed to work in the quarry ; the Conciliation Officer was being 
requested to see that the work of the mine was started as quickly as possible 
after rectification of the irregularities found by the Mines Inspector and to insist 
on payment of lay off compensation . Now if the workmen did not complete 12 
months of continuous service, they are not entitled to lay -off compensation , and 
as regards restarting of work in the mine, it is admitted that that was started in 
the first or second week of May, 1965 and that about 120 of the retrenched work 
men were re - employed there . In letter Ext. 5 dated 26th April, 1965 written by 
the Vice -President. Shri Robin Chatterjee , to the Conciliation Officer , Ranigani, 
there is mention of engagement of one contractor by the management; and in the 
letter Ext. 5 ( a ) dated 1st May 1965 from Shri Robin Chatterjee to the Con 
ciliatıcn Officer, there is reference to engagement of two contractors namely 
Milkhi Ram Pandit and Panchkari Chatterjee . The union has also produced a 
letter , Ext. 1A from the Conciliation Officer , Raniganj addressed to the Manager, 
Ardhogram Khas Colliery complaining that the management had engaged two 
contractors and allowed them to engage their own labour instead of the retren 
ched workmen ; but this letter bears the date 5th May , 1965 , and shortly there 
after work in the incline was restarted and the workmen were given notice to 
report for duty ; the notices which were given to the workmen have collectively 
been marked Ext. 6 , and many of them bear the date 5th May 1965 ; some also bear 
an earlier date like 30th April 1965 . Accordingly , I am unable to accept the 
statement of Shri Chatterjee that from 11th March , 1965 two contractors were 
engaged by the management for working in the quarry . Even if it is accepted that 
about 1st of May, 1965 1wo contractors were engaged for work in the quarry 
it is clear that at about the same time the retrenched workmen were also notified 
to ome and report for duty . Therefore I cannot find that alternative jobs were 
avaii: le when the colliery was closed down on 10th March , 1965 . The con 
tractors appear to have been engaged just before the working of the mine i.e . , 
the incline was resumed and at that time the retrenched workmen were 
also given notice to rejoin their posts and it is admitted that 120 


4778 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/ PAUSA ?, 1889 


[PART II 


of them actually did so . As rcgards the remaining 60 or 70 , if there was 
no work for them naturally the management could not re - employ them . 
There is no evidence that work in the quarry went on even after the working of 
the incline was resumed . Though the attitude of the inanagement in the present 
case appears to have been one of non -cooperation which is regrettable, it must be 
held that the union has not been able to prove its contention that the managc 
ment deliberately avoided absorption of the retrenched workers when the colliery 
had to be closed under the order of the Mines Inspector with effect from 101h March , 
1965. 

7. My award therefore is that alternative jobs were not available when the 
Ardhogram Khas Colliery was closed down with effect from 10th March . 1965 
until the incline was fit for reopening in the beginning of May , 1965 when 120 of 
the retrenched workmen were actually re - employed , and therefore the question 
of non - absorption of the retrenched workmen does rot arise . The workmen , 
therefore, are not entitled to any relief in this case . 


Sd.) S . K SEN , 
Presiding Officer. 
[No. 8 / 123 /66 - LRII. ] 


-Dated , 4th December 1967. 


S . O . 4530, In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Hidustrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the einployers in 
rilation to the Pure Searsole Colliery, Post Office Searsolerajbari (Burdwan ) 
and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 12th 
I ecember , 1967. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 


REFERENCE No. 27 OF 1967 
PRESENT : 

Employers in relation to the Pure Searsole Colliery . 


AND 


Their Workmen , 
PARTIES : 

Shri S . K . Sen - Presiding Omcer . 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers: -- Shri R . N . Choudhury . 
On behalf of Workmen : - Shri Robin Chatterjee , Vice - President, Colliery Maz 

door Sabha 


STATE : West Bengal. 


INDUSTAY : Coal Mines. 


AWARD 


By Order No. 6 / 10 / 67 -LRII dated 6th April 1967, the Central Government 
i eferred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
10 the Pure Searsole Colliery , P . O . Searsolerajberl ( Burdwan ) , and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the following schedule . 
" 1 . Whether the services of Shri Bholanath Banerjee were utilised by 

the management of Pure Searsole Colllery as an apprentice or munshi? 
In either case , to what wages and allowances is he entitled and from 

what date ? 
2 . Whether the termination of services of the said workinan with effect from 

the 23rd December , 1966 was justified ? If not, to what relief is he 
entitled ? " 


2 . Although both parties have appeared at the hearing , neither party Aled any 
yritten statement before the tribunal and the respective cases had to be gathered 
from the fallure report and the papers annexed therewith . According to the letter 
of Shri Robin Chatterjee, Vice -President of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Raniganj, 


Sec . 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4779 


clated 29th November 1966 addressed to the A .L . C ., Central, Raniganj, by which 
the dispute concerning the termination of service of Bholanath Banerjee was raised , 
Bholanath Banerjee was a mining apprentice . It was however stated that he was 
inade to work as an underground munshi but he was not paid as a runshi or 
Assistant Sirdar , and his name was not entered in the pay sheet of the workmen , 
and that the union raised a dispute about this before the A . L . C .. and thereupon 
the management out of grudge served one month s notice of termination of service 
(in Bholanath Banerjee on 23rd November 1966 and his service was terminated 
with effect from 23rd December 1966 , although apprentices junior to him were 
xullowed to remain in service. The management s cas ? was that Bholanath Banerjee 
had been taken as a mining apprentice on 21st February 1965 and that he qualified 
as a shot firer and so the period of apprenticeship had come to an end and he was 
given formal notice of termination of apprenticeship , and that nothing illegal was 
done by the management. 


3 . At the hearing the management has examined two witnesses and proved 
certain documents to prove their case. The union though it was grante one 
adiournment after the commencement of the hearing to enable it to produce the 
workman concerned , was not able to produce the workman ; Shri Robin Chatterjee 
has submitted before the tribunal that though a letter was written to him at his 
home address and also at his sister s address. no response was made by the work 
man concerned . No witness has been examined on behalf of the union . although 
Shri Chatterjee has cross -examined the witnesses for the management and argued 
the case for the union . Both the witnesses examined for the management denied 
that Bholanath Banerjee was made to work as a munshi. MW 2 - Debi Prasad 
Hazra stated that at No . 3 / 4 incline where Bholanath Banerjee used to Wurt as 
apprentice , the mining sirdar used to prepare the raising report and there was no 
assistant mining sirdar or munshi to do that work . From the evidence of MW 
1 -Shri Charu Chandra Mukherjee, Headclerk , it appears that Bholanath Banerjee 
when serving as a mining apprentice worked sometimes with the timber mistries, 
sometimes with the mining sirdar and sometimes with the shot firer . It may be 
that when he was working with the mining sirdar he was asked to prepare some 
raising reports . But that would not show that Bholanath Banerjee was regularly 
employed as an Assistant sirdar or pit munshi and made to write the daily raising 
reports . The evidence of both the witnesses for the management is that Bhnlanath 
Banerjee was taken as a mining apprentice on 25th February 1965 , and alter he 
had passed the shot firer s certificate examination , the period of his apprenticeship 
was terminated with effect from 23rd December 1966 by service of a notice . of 
which the office copy is Ext. B . Ext. B states that he had been given sufficient 
time to gain experience and to appear at the Statutory Examination of the Mines 
Department and that his apprenticeship would be terminated with effect from 23rd 
December 1966 . The B form register for 1965 Ext. A , was produced to show the 
date of commencement of the apprenticeship and the date of termination . The 
date of commencement shows some overwriting in respect of digits for the year ; 
the original figures appear to be 63 and this has been altered to 65 by overwriting . 
It appears that before the Conciliation Officer the union s case was that in April 
1963 Bholanath Banerjee had prepared some raising reports showing the names 
of pick miners and the quantity of coal loaded by them . Regulation 18 of the Coal 
Mines Regulation , 1957, provides that no person shall be admitted as a candidate 
at an examination for a shot firer s certificate unless the Board is satisfied that he 
has had practical experience in a coal mine for a period of not less than 2 years . 
If Bholanath Banerjee had really started apprenticeship on 21st Februar 1965 
and had been away on leave from 12th June 1965 to 9th January 1966 as shown 
in the B form register, he could not possibly have completed two years of training 
and appeared for shot firer s certificate examination by November, 1966 . I there 
fore think that Bholanath Banerjee was really taken as a niining apprentice from 
21st February 1963 and not from 21st February 1965 . But whatever the length of 
the period that Bholanath Banerjee put in as an apprentice at the Pure Searsole 
Colliery , after he had appeared at the shot firer s certificate examination and lhus 
completed his period of training . if the colliery management did not need him in 
the post for which he had qualified , they were not bound to retain him . In such 
circumstances the notice terminating his apprenticeship cannot amount to termin 
nation of service of a permanent workman . The model Standing Orders urder the 
Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Central, Rules 1946 define an appren 
tice as a learner who is paid an allowance during the period of his training . 
Although the definition of a workman under the Industrial Disputes Act includes an 
apprentice , the definition must be understood subject to the status of an apprentice 
as a learner and not as a permanent workman . MW i has stated that from time to 
time mining apprentices are taken at the colliery ; that a person who wants to 
qualify as a shot firer , or surveyor or second class manager applies for being taken 


4780 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 


SPART II 


as an apprentice and if the manager is satisfied that he is a suitable person and . 
the owner gives his approval , then the person is taken as an apprentice ; and that 
the length of the term depends on the job for which the candidate wants to qualify . 
MW 1 also has stated that there were two apprentices who were junior to Bholanath 
Banerjee , namely Bajrang Lal Sharma and Anadi Kr. Lhebar. This also appears 
from the register of wages of mining apprentices, Ext. C . In view of the purpose 
for which apprentices are taken , there is no substance in the contention of Shri 
Chatterjee that although junior apprentices were retained , Bholanath Banerjee s 
service as an apprentice was terminated wrongiully . It is not a case of retrench 
ment for a category of permanent workman , in which case the junior most workman 
has to be retrenched on the principle of last come first go . That principle clearly 
does not apply to apprentices , because those who come first will naturally com 
plete the period of training as apprentice first and will be the first to go . Shri. 
Chatterjee has next referred to the definition of retrenchment in clause 00 of 
Section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, and has urged that the termination of 
service of an apprentice amounts to retrenchment and therefore the retrenchment 
without payment of retrenchment compensation under Section 25F of the Act was 
bad . I have already mentioned however that an apprentice is only a learner and 
cannot claim to be a permanent workman and when his apprenticeship is termina 
ted . after he has qualified for the post for which he was under training, it cannot 
be said that the termination of the apprenticeship is termination of service and 
amounts to retrenchment. This was also the view taken by the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal in the case , 1956 LLJ 599 [ Balkrishna Ganpat V . Ruston & Hornsby 
( India ) Ltd ., Bombay ). The LAT negatived the claim that the apprentice should 
get compensation under Section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act on the ground 
that terrnination of service by expiry of the period stipulated under the express 
or implied condition of service does not amount to retrenchment. In the present 
case Shri Chatterjee pointed out that no lciter of appointment setting out the terms 
of employment as an apprentice was issued to Bholanath Banerjee, as admitted 
by MW ) . But even if such letter of appointment containing the terms of appren 
ticeship was not issued , it is an implied tern of apprenticeship that the apprentice 
will be on training for the job that he wishes to learn for an agreer! period or for 
so long as he has not qualified for the job . Therefore when at the end of that 
period or after the apprentice has completed his training the apprenticeship is 
terminated , it does not amount to termination of service within the meaning of 
clause 00 of Section 2 of the Act and the apprentice is not entitled to any retrench 
ment compensation . Shri Chatterjee also argued that even though for a time 
Bhraiath Banerjee was made to work as a defacto munshi and submit the daily 
raising report of the pick miners he was not paid the wages of a pit munshi but 
only the allowance as apprentice . But as already pointed out in the definition of 
an apprentice under Model Standing Orders an apprentice is a learner who is paid 
a certain allowance and he cannot claim a scale of wages equal to the work that 
he might do from time to time in the course of his training. 


4 . Accordingly my award is as follows: 
1 . Shri Bholanath Banerjee worked at Pure Searsole Colliery as a Mining 

apprentice , and even if he worked for a time as a defacto munshi he 
is not entitled to the wages of a munshi but to the allowance as 

apprentice which was paid to him by the management. 
2 . The so - called termination of service of Bholanath Banerjee with effect 

from 23rd December , 1966 amounted really to the termination of the 
apprenticeship after Bholanath Banerjee had qualified for the job . 
which he had become apprentice , and therefore such termination 
was justified and Bholanath Banerjee is not entitled to any relief . 


Sd . / - S . K . SEN , 

Presiding Officer . 


Dated . 5th December 1967. 


(No. 6 / 10 / 67-LRII. ) 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1967 
3 . 0 , 4531.- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 o, 1917 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Inclustrial Tribunal. Calcutta in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery , Post Oifice Ukhra , Burdwan and their 
workniin which was received by the Central Goverainent on the 13th December , 
1967. 


Sed , 3(U)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


4781 


- 


C ENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE NO. 78 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 

Englovers in relation to the Sarpi Kajora Colliery , 


Their ANTO 


Their Workmen , 


PRESENT : 

Shri S . K Sen - Prosidin Olficer . 
APPEARANCES ; 

On selalf of Employers - Shri K . P . Mukherjee , Bar - at-Iaw . 

Oi! bchaif of Workmen 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines. 

AWARD 
By Order No . 6 / 122 / 66 -LRII, dated 21st October , 1967 , the Central Governinent 
l elerred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Sarpi Kajora Colllery , P . O . Ukhra , Burdwan and their workmen , in respect 
ring the matters specified in the following schedule : 

" Whether the management of Sarpi Kajora Colliery was justified in dis 

missing the following workmen with effect from the dates shown against 

then 
( 1) Shri Srinarayan Tiwari, Machine Driver - 7th April, 1966 . 
( 2 ) Shirt Lalai Pandey, Machine Mazdoor — 7th April , 1966 , 
( 3 ) Shri Kailash Rain , Surface Trammer - 7th April , 1966 . 

If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . According to the case of the management, the three workmen concerned , 
namely Srinarayan Tiwari, Machine Driver , Lalal Pandey , Machine Mazdoor and 
Kailash Ram , Surface Trammer , were absent from their work without previous 
leave for more than 10 days and accordingly they were chargc - sheeted 2010 Suspended 
and were dismissed after enquiry . According to the union , no proper enquiry 
was held and the order of dismissal was therefore bad . The management pro 
cluced the three workmen concerned and each of them has stated on oath that he 
has no longer any dispute with the management and does not want to proceed 
with the reference case in connection with his dismissal by the management of 
Sarpi Kajora Colliery . The union has not put in appearance before the Tribunal 
and has not Aled written statement. The workmen have stated that they have 
no connection with the union , particularly after the death of Keshab Banerjee 
who used to take leading part in organising the Colliery Mazdoor Union . The 
management apparently has won over the three workmen concerned by making 
some settlement with them . They have all signed a joint petition with the Agent 
of the Sarpi Kajora Colliery Shri R . C . Thacker , that they have no dispute with 
their tommer employer and that a no dispute award be made in the case . 

Accordingly I And that no dispute now exists over the dismissal of threr 
workrnen , Shri Srinarayan Tiwari, Shri Lalai Pandey and Shri Koilash Ram , 

( Sd .) S . K . SEN , 
Dizted., 8712 Dicember, 1907. 

Presiding Oncer 
(No. 8 / 122 / 66 -LRII. 1 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 4th December 1967 
S . O . 4532 _ Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
clispute exists betwcen the employers in relation to the Jote Dhemo Colliery , Post 
Odilce Ukhra , Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedulc hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


4782 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART 11 


Now , therefore , io exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , costituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Jote Dhemo Colliery was justified in not allow 

ing Shri Hafiz Mia , Line Mistry , to resume duty on the 2nd February , 
1967 after the re -opening of the colliery on the 22nd November 1986 ? 
Ii not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 


( No . 6 / 56 /67-LRIT. ] 


S . O . 4533. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinon that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Assam Railways and Trad 
ing Company Limited , Margherita , Assam and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule nereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Messrs Assam Railways and Trading Company 

Limited , Post Office Margheritta , Assam , was justified in not supply 
ing at concessional rates the full quantum of rice and atta to the 
workmen in their four Collieries namely , Baragolai, Tipong, Ledo and 
Namdang , in terms of the award of the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad . in Reference No . 44 of 1960 , published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No . S . O 2955 , dated the 7th December, 1961 during 
the weeks commencing on 27th September 1965, 4th Otober 1985 , 
11th October 1965 , 18th Octoner 1965 , 25th October 1965 , 1st Novernber 
1965 , 8th November 1965 , 15th November 1965 , 22nd November 1965 . 
29th November 1965 , 6th December 1965 , 13th December 1965 , 20th 
December 1965 , 27th December 1965 , 3rd! January 1966 , 10th January 
1986 . 17th January 1966 24th January 1066 , 31st Januar F 
February 1966 , 14th February 1966 , 21st February 1966 . 21st March 
1966 , 9th May 1966 , 16th May 1966 . 23rd May 1966 , 11th Jul 1966 . 
12th September 1966 . 19th September 1966 . -10th Octoher 1966 , 31st 
October 1966 . 14th November 1966 19th December 1066 and 19th 
December 1966 ?. If not, to what relief are the workmen Antitlost ? 

[No. 1 / 11 /67 -LRII ) 


7th 


S . O . 4534 - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the emplovers in relation to the New Golukdin Colliery , 
Post Offire Jharia. District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of suh - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the sain tisnoyen fra vicination to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under sertion 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the New Golukdih Colliery , Post 

Office Jharia . District Dhanhad in stonnina Shri Ram Ratan Sharma, 
Attendance Clerk , from work with effort from the 21st June, 1967, 
was justified ? If not to what relief is the workman entitleni ? 

(No. 2 (125 ) /67-LR - II- 1 


SEC , 3 (ii)] 


THE GA / ETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


4783 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 
S . O . 4535 .- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Lower Kenda Colliery , Post 
Office Kajoragram , District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1) of sectiun 10 of toe industrial Dispuns Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said disputo for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal , Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDILE 
Whether the management of Lower Kenda Colliery Fost Office Kajora 

urard , Distiict Burdwan of Messrs. Khas Kenua Coilery (Private ) 
Limited was justified in terminating the services of Shri Pankaj 
Ranjan Moitra , Coal Cutting Machine Supervisor , with effect from 
the 25th May, 1967 ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[ No. 6 /74 /67- LRII. ] 
MAIL Ucin. . tie igih Derpretier 1967 
S . O . 4536 . . Whereas an industrial disruie exists between employers in relation 
to the South Jhagrakhand Colliery , Post Olice South Jhagrakhand Colliery , District 
Surguja , Madhya Pradesh and their workmen represented by the Madhya Pradeshi 
Colliery Workers . Federation , Post Office South Thagrakhand Colliery District 
Surguja , Madhya Pradesh ; 

And whereas , the said en :ployers and the workmen have , by i written agree 
ment, in pursuince of init provisions of sub - secticn ( 1 ) of section 10 - A the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 ot 1947 ) , referred the said dispute to arbitration 
by the person specified therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement his 
been forwardeci to the Central Government; 


Now , therefore , in pu . guance of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 1A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 5th 
December , 1967. 


AGREEMENT 
Arbitration Agreement under sectio . 104 of the industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
between the management of South Jhugraklind Colliery of M / s . Jhagrakhand 
Collierios ( P ) Ltd . and their workmen? me presented by the M . P . Colliery Workers 
Federation : 
PLACE : South Jhagrakhand Colliery . 

DATE : 26th November, 1967 . 
PARTIES : 
Representing Employers : Sri B . C . Mukherjee, Manager , South Jhagra 

khand Colliery P . O . South Jhagrakhand 

Colliery , District Surguja , M .P . 
Representing Workmen : . . Sri G . P . Sharma, Sarpatary , M . P . Colliery 

Workers Federation P . O . South Jhagrakhanr? 

Colliery . District Surguja , M . P . 
It is hereby agreed betwen the parties to refer the following industrial dispute 
to the arbitration of Sri P . C . Rai, Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Jabalpur 
(i) Specific matters in dispute : 
" Having regard to the terms of settlement dated 16th January , 1965 read 
with minutes of discussion of same date over a charter of 40 demands, 
whether it is obligatory on the part of the management to supply wcollen 
jerseys ( Pull - over ) to the Surface Trammers of South Jhagrakhand Colliery ? 

If so , from what date ? 
( ii ) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of 
establishment or undertaking involved : 

( 1 ) Manager , South Jhagrakhand Collieries of M / s . Jhagrakhand Collieries 

( P ) Ltd . P . O . South Jhagrakhand Colliery , Distt . Surguja , M . P . 


4784. 


THE GAZETTF OF INDIA . DECEMBER 29, 1967 /PICSA 2 . 1889 


[PART 11 


( 2 ) The Secretary , M . P . Colliery Workers Federation , South Jhagrakhand 

Colliery, P . O . South Jhagrakhand Colliery . Distt. Surguja , M . P . 
( iii ) Name of the Union , if any, representing the workmen in question : 

The M . P . Colliery Workers Federation , Chirimiri, Districi Surguja . M . P . 

Through its Secretary at South Jhagrakhand Colliery . 
( iv ) Total No. of workmen employed in the linertaking arlected : 

1300 . 
(v ) Estimated No, of workiner affectes or likely to be affected by tha dispute : 

52 
We further agree that the decision of the arbi raior shall be binding on us 

The arbitrator shall make his award withiri u period or 3 months from date 
or within sich further time as is extended by inutual agreement between us in 
writing . In case the award is notmade within the period abovementioned , the refer 
ence to arbitrator shall stand autoinatically cancellcat and we shall be free to 
negotiate in fresh arbitration , 
Representing Em701, "); : 

Representing Workmen : 
(Sd .) B . C . MUTHERI, 

(Sd.) G . P . SHARMI, 
Witnesses . 

1 . (S3 ) THANWARNAS P . K . 

. ( Sd . , G . R . BHANVAR , 
South Jhagrakhand Colliery . 
26th November , 1967 . 

[No . 3 / 44 /67-LRII. 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Sery . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1967 
S . O . 4537 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
5 of the Mines Act , 1957 ( 35 of 1952 ) , tie Coniral Governinent hereby inakes the 
following further amendment in the notitication of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 531 dated the 2nd March , 1961, 
namely : 
In the said notification , the following entry shall be omitted , namely : 
" (3 ) Shri I. J. Badhwar" . 

[No. 8 / 69 /67-MI. ) 


Yew Delhi, the 14th December 1907 
S . O . 4539 .- In cxerrise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
5 of the Mines Act , 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) . the Central Governmert hereby makes the 
following further amendment in tle notification ci the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Empty . ic . it Vo . S . O . 531 dated the 2nd March , 1961 , 
namely : 
In the said notification , the following eniry shall be omitted , namely :- - 
" ( 87 ) Shri O . P Asija ." 

No. 3 / 96 /67- MI. ] 
J. D . TEWARI, Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1967 
S . O . 4539 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award oi the 


Src , 3 ( ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4785 


Arbitrator in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to Mercantile 
Bank Limited , Delhi and their workmen represented by the Delhi State Bank 
Employees Federation , Delhi which was received by the Government on the 4th 
Decembe : 1967 


BEFORE SHRI S . K . GOKHALE , REGIONAL , LABOUR COMMISSIONER 

( CENTRAL ) ( TRAINING ) , NEW DELHI AND ARBITRATOR 
In the matter of reference by Agreement dated 8th August, 1967 under section 
10A of the Industzial Disputes Act, 1947. 

BETWEEN 
The management of Mercantile Bank Ltd ., Delhi. 

AND 
Their workmen as represented by the Delhi State Bank Employees Federation , 
Delhi. 


APPEARANCES : 
Representing the Management : 

1. Mr. D . Macfarlane. Accountant, Mercantile Bank Ltd ., New Delhi. 

2 . Mr. P . Mandal, Legal Adviser , Mercantile Bank Ltd ., New Delhi. 
Representing the Federation : 
1 . Mr. P . L Syal, President, Delhi Siate Bank Employees Federation , 710 , 

Ballimaran , Delhi. 
2 . Shri R . B . L . Mathur, Secretary , Mercantile Bank Enıployees Federation , 

Delhi. 
3 . Shri J. N . Saxena. Assistant Secretary , Mercantile Bank E :nployees Fede 
ration , Delhi 

AWARD 


The Delhi State Bank Employees Federation raised an industrial dispute over 
the payment of amount payable under the bank s circular dated 18th October 
1960 to Shri Autar Krishan for passing Part I of the Indian Instiute of Bankers 
Examination held in April , 1966 before the Conciliation Oificer , Delhi. Subse 
quently , the employers and workmen , agreed to reier tne aputa tos my arbi. ra 
tion under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 ut 
1947 ) and accordingly , the Government of India , Ministry of Lavou . , Employment 
and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) issued an Order 
No. 51 / 57 /67- LR - III dated the 25th August . 1967 giving necessary details of the 
agreement and the specific matièr in dispute for my arbit . ation . 
The specific issue framed for my determination is as under : 
“ Whether honorarium of £50 payable under the Bank s circular dated 18th 

October 1960 to Shri Autar Krishan for passing Part I of the Indian 
Institute of Bankers Examination held in Apoll, 1966 should be con . 
verted into Rupees at the official rate of exchange p . evailing upto 
5th June 1966 or the rate prevailing from 6th June 1966 " . 


The President , Delhi State Bank Employees Federation was requested to for 
ward a written statement in regard to the sperific matte : in dispue in support 
of their stand to me on or before 25th September 1967 with a further request that 
a copy of the aforesaid statement be sent simultaneously to the Management of 
the Mercantile Bank . The Management of the Mercantile Bank in another letter 
were requested to forward their comments by 30th September , 1967 to me with a 
copy of their comments to the Federation . In my letter No . SKG / Arb -MBEU /67 
dated the 16th September, 1967 I also intimated the parties that the a :bitration 
proceedings will be held in my office at 11 .00 a . m . on Wedcsday , the 4th Octoger , 
1967. The Federation , however , requested for adjournment and requested for 
a copy of the letter , earlier addressed to them . The Management subsequently , 
requested for an adjournment as they had to refer the matter their Gene al 
Manager in India , headquartered in Calcutta for advice . Acceding to the request 
of the parties, the proceedings were fixed on the 23rd November , 1967 at 11 . 00 a . m . 
but again the parties jointly requested for postponement of the hearing un il 
Wednesday, the 29th November , 1967. The parties were finally informed that 
they should appear positively on Wednesday, the 29th November, 1967 , and it 


4786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART II 


would not be possible to grant any further adjournment in the matter . Accord 
ingly , the parties appeared on the last scheduled date to present their cases before 
me . 

During the proceedings, the arguments placed by the parties were briefly as 
under : 

The Delhi State Bank Employees Federation in support of their stand among 
other things stated that : 
1 . under its notice dated 18th October 1960 [ copy enclosed and marked 

Annexure ( A ) ] , the Mercantile Bank Ltd ., prescribed the honoraria , 
for passing Part I and Part II of CAIIB ( Indian Institute of Bankers 

Examination ) at the following rates :- -- 
For passing Part 1 - The equivalent of £50 . 
For passing Part II - The equivalent of £100 . 
2 . That Shri Autar Krishan , an emplovee of Merchantile Bank Ltd ., New 

Delhi branch passed Part I of CAIIB examination and received the 
result sheet on Ist June 1966 . He showed the said result sheet to 
the Accountant of the Bank and demanded payment of £50 or its 
payment at par rate in Indian Currency. The Accountant replied 
that the payment could only be made if Shri Autar Krishan produced 

the certificate for passing Part I of CAIIB examination . 
3 . That on 6th June 1966 the Indian rupee was devalued 
4 . That Shri Autar Krishan received the certificate for passing Part I of 

CAIIB on 8th June 1966 and produced the same to the Bank on the 
same day and requested for payment of £50 or payınent at par rate 

in Indian Currency . 
5 . That prior to devaluation the par rate of £50 was Rs. 670 but after devalua 

tion it became Rs. 1 ,050 . 
6 . That the Bank asked Shri Autar Krishan to receive the pre - devaluation 

amount. int . Rs. 670 upon which Shri Autar Krishan told the manage 
ient eithar to pay him €50 or to make payment at par rate , i. e ., 

Rs. 1,050 . The Bank refused to do the neediul. 
7. That the maiter was taken up by the Union with the Assistant Labour 

Commissioner who could not succeed in bringing about a settlement, 

and the mattor was thus agreed to be referred for arbitration . 
8 . That Shri utar Krishan is entitled to £50 or payment at par rate i. e ., 

Rs. 1, 950 the rate upplicable on the date the certificate was handed 

over to the Bank , for having passed Part I of CAIIB . 
While basing their case on the points referred to above , the representative of 
the Federation also said that according to their own circular the management had 
a liability to pay the employee . The management themselves laid down a certain 
condition , which the workman fulfilled at the earliest opportunity and then 
demanded the equivalent of £50 as obtained on 8th June 1966 . Since it was at 
the instance of the management. id is only right that the management should 
pay Shri Autar Kuishan , £50 at the new rale and not what it would accrue prior to 
6th June 1966 The representative of the Federation also said that the other 
employees who had simila : ly passed the Exam . were given the payment on the 
1st of June itself without laying down any such condition and the union is not 
taking un their causes as the date of demand and acceptance by the bank was 
prior to 6th of June, 1966 


The management, in support of their stand stated as under : 

1 . While the quantuin of the honoraria for passing Part I and Part II of the 
CAIB examination was mentionn , in English pounds because the Bank is having 
its Head Office in the area where English pound is the ruling currency , it was 
actuid lv intended that the honoraria to be paid should be Rs. 670 for the First 
Part and Rs. 1340 for the Second Part. 


2 The Bank desires to add that for the purpose of benefit arising out of the 
passing of Part I and Part lí of the CAIIB examinations the relevant date is the 
date of the result and that the same should be taken into account both for the 
purpose of granting the increment and / or paying special allowance for the same 
in terms of the Bipartite Settlement as also for paying its ex - gratia honoraria 
offered by the Bank . 


SEO , 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4787 


3 . The Bank wishes to submit that the devaluation of the Indian rupee which 
took place on 6th June, 1966, is neither relevant nor material for payment of the 
honoraria claimed by Shri Autar Krishan which became due to him on 1st June, 
1966 . 


4 . The Bank , however , desires to add that the date of the result of the CAIIB 
Fxamination being the material date both for the purpose of granting of incre 
ments / special allowance under the Bipartite Settlement and for payment of the 
ex - gratia honoraria offered by the Bank , Shri Autar Krishan s demands that he 
shuold be paid either £50 in English currency or Rs. 1 .050 in Indian currency is 
untenable and unjustified . 

5 . They further stated that Shri Autar Krishan is entitled to only Rs. 670 as 
ex -gratia honorarium for passing Part I of the CAIIB Examination and the Bank 
is ready and willing to pay the same to him . 

During the course of proceedings I had requested the parties to produce the 
mark sheet received by Shri Autar Krishan and also the certificate issued in 
favour of Shri Autar Krishan by the Indian Institute of Bankers regarding 
completion of his part 1 of the examination . A copy each of the aforesaid docu 
ment is at annexures B and C " . Shri Autar Krishan had produced only the 
mark sheet earlier and the management desired that he should provide further 
evidence to establish that he has completed Part I of the Associate examination of 
the Institute . Accordingly Shri Autar Krishan produced on 8th June , 1966 the 
certificate issued by the Institute and the management agreed to pay the hono 
raria equivalent of £50 for Part I. 

Since Shri Autar Krishan could procure his certificate only on the 8th of June, 
1966 and presented it to the management, on that day the Federation had demand 
ed that the maingement should pay Shri Autar Krishan , rupees 1050 , instead 
of the pre - devaluation amount that is Rs. 670 . Apparently the Federation is 
laying too much stress on the date of production of evidence in support of the 
completion of Part I of the Associate Examination by Shri Autar Krishan and not 
the purpose or the fact for which the management is bound to pay honorariam , as 
per their notice issued on 18th October 1960. The Federation no doubt, argued 
their case very well stressing the factor of liability created by a condition laid 
down by the management on 1st June, 1966 which was fulfilled by the enployee 
on 8th June 1966 and also suggested that the management have not followed the 
practice or accepting the mark sheet produced by the employee as in the past . 
The management according to them , therefore, should pay the honorarium in 
terms of the value of pound as obtained on 8th June 1966 and not on 1st June. 
1966 


The management, arguing in support of their case had rightly states that the 
date of devaluation is neither material nor relevant in this case. It will be seen 
from the certificate issued by the Indian Institute of Bankers that Shri Autar 
Krishan having been examined by appropriate examiners and having been found 
by their duly qualified examiners , was declared to have completed Part I of the 
Associate Examination of that Institute on 30th May , 1966 and as such the amount 
due either in the form of increment and or honorarium accrued on the 30th of 
May . 1966 and thus the amount, namely , Rs. 670 I feel was quite appropriate 

In support of their case , the representative of the management quoted English 
Law defining conversion of foreign currency into English currency . He quoted 
from G . C . Cheshire s book on Private International Law where it has dealt with 
such issues arising from conversion of foreign currency and stated that : 
ther was formerly a controversy whether the rate of exchange prevailing 

at the date of the wrong or at the date of the judgment must be 
followed in making this conversion from foreign to English Currency 
The date chosen may be of great importance to the parties in view 
of the violent fluctuations of the rate of exchange that not infrequent 

v occur in the modern world . It is now settled that the relevant 

cate is the date of the wrong . 
The representative of the management also quoted from Indian Law regarding 
Rate of Conversion He referred to a case , namely , Abrul Rahaman , vs. M . P . 
Kesavan AIR . 1958 ) (Kerala - --Page -51) , wherein the question of rate of conver 
sion was discussed . It was argued that Indian Court cannot give judgment for 
the payment of an amount in foreign currency , and for the purpose of litigation 
in India , a debt expressed in a foreign currency must be converted into Indian 
Rupees with reference to the rate of exchange prevailing on the day when the debt 


4788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


was payable . In this case , the amount was payable on the 30th of May , 1967 and 
it is only right and proper that the amount to be paid , should be Rs. 670 and not 
Rs. 1 ,050 , as requested by the Federation , 

It is diffcult to agree with the claim of the Federation as the sanctity here is 
more to the date of completing the Part I of Associate Examination and not the 
date on which Shri Autar Krishan could produce suficient evidence about his 
having done 30 . I, therefore, agree with the stand taken by the management. 
During the discussion , however , I was informed that in all five Oficers completed 
the Part I / II of the Associate Examination on the 30th May, 1966 and except Shri 
Autar Krishan others were given increment / increments due to them , w . e . f. 1st 
May, 1966 . Shri Autar Krishan was, it was understood given an increment from 
1st of June, 1966 . The management, however , agreed to give the increment to 
Shri Autar Krishan also from 1st May, 1966. I appreciate the gesture of the 
management which would also help to bring in certain amount of uniformity in 
the grant of increments to all their employees completing different parts on the 
same date last year . 


Having, therefore, carefully considered the facts of the case and the evidence . 
documents and other materials placed before me by the parties and having con 
sidered , the argument during the hearing of the case on 29th November , 1967, I 
award as under : 


" " The honorariam of £50 payable under the Bank circular dated the 18th 

October , 1980 to Shri Autar Krishan for passing Part I of the Indian 
Institute of Bankers Examination , held in April, 1966 , should be con 
verted into rupees at the official rate of exchange prevailng upto 
5th June, 1908 , 


I take this opportunity to express my thanks to both the parties for their co 
operation during the course of hearing . 

( Sd .) S . K . GOKHALE, 


Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) and Arbitrator . 


ANNEXURE A 


MERCANTILE BANK LIMITED CHANDNI CHOWK , P .B . NO , 1005, DELHI-8 


NOTICE 


INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKERS EXAMINATIONS 


We have been advised by Head Omice that the scale of honorariums previously 
authorised to be paid to members of our staff has now been cancelled . 


In its place , the following increased honorariums will be paid to all successful 
candidates : 


For passing Part I - the equivalent of £50 . 


For passing Part II - - the equivalent of £100 . 


Candidates must in future pay the cost of their own books and tuition fees 


The effective date for these new arrangements is the 14th October , 1980 and 
no retrospective claims can be considered . 


( Sd .) F . A . FITZPATRICK , Agent. 


Delhi; 


18th October 1960. 


Sec , 8 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967 /PAUSA 2 , 18894789 


ANNE TURE B 


THE INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKERS 

STATE BANK OF INDIA BUILDING Tole.No. 253325 
SECOND FLOOR , APPOLO STREET 
FORT, BOMBAY 

Dated 30th May , 1906 . 


TO 


K - 1438 
Shri Autar Krishan , 
Mercantile Bank Ltd ., 
E Connaught Place , 
New Delhi. 

ASSOCIATE EXAMINATION , 1966 
The Candidate is advised that the result of his Examination is as hereunder 

PART- I 
Practice and Law of Banking 
Economics 
English Composition 
Book -keeping and Accounts 

Commercial Geography 
( F - A ) indicates failure within 1 / 5th of the Pass Standard . 
(E -B ) indicates fallure by more than 1 / 5th below the Pass Standard . 

( Sd .) Secretary . 


* PASS 


ANNEXURE C 


THE INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKERS 
STATE BANK OF INDIA BUILDING 
SECOND FLOOR , APOLO STREET 

FORT , BOMBAY. 


K - 1438 


MEMORANDUM 
ASSOCIATE EXAMINATION 

PART I 


Be it known to all concerned that Shri Autar Krishan having been examined 
by appropriate Examiners and he having been found by them duly qualified in 
the subiccts mentioned below , is declared to have now completed Part I of the 
Associate Examination of this Institute . 

1. Practice and Law of Banking , 
2 . Economics. 
3 . English Composition . 
4 . Book -keeping and Accounts. 


5 . Commercial Geography . 


( Sd .) Secretary 


Dated : 30th May , 1966 . 


(No. F . 51 /57 / 07 LRIII. ] 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1967 
8 . 0 , 4540 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Cominissions 
of Ingulry Act, 1952 ( 80 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment to the notifcation of the Government of India in the 


A700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART IL 


Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S . O . 2286 , dated the 4th July , 1967, namely 
In the said Notification , in the second paragraph , for the words 
" Within a period of six months from the date of the publication this Notifi 

cation in the Official Gazette . 
the words ard figures 

belore the First June, 1963" 
shall ire substituted . 

[ No. 17 / 10 / 67-LRIV. ] 
New Delhi, the 14th December 1967 
S . O . 4541.. Whereas the Central Government having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - clause ( vi) 
of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947) declared 
by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , 
Employment and Rehabilitation No . S . O . 1990 , dated the 5th June, 1967, the 
velikini: duld y carried on by a banking company as defined in clause (bb ) of 
section of the said Act, to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
said Act, for a period of six months from the 29th June, 1967; 

And whereas the Central Governmeni is of the opinion that public interest 
requir * the extension of the said period by a further period of six nonths ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
clause ( vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Governmeni hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of he said Act for a further period of six months 
frorr she 29th December, 1967. 

[No. F .1 / 106 /67-LRI. } 
S . O . 4542 . In pursuance or section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 ot 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal Jabalpur in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relarion to the Punjab National Bank Limited , Daltonganj and their workmen 
which was received by the Central Government on the 11th December , 1967. 
SEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM 

LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Dated November 30 , 1967 
PIESE VI: 
Skull G . C . Agarwala - Presiding Officer . 

REF . CASE NO, CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 114 ) / 67 ( JABALPUR TRIBUNAL 

REF . CASU No. 41 OF 1965 ( JABALPUR TRIBUNAL ) 
PARTIES 
Frpinyers in relation to 
Punjab National Bank Limited , Daltonganj. (Bihar ) 

Versus 
Their workmen , represented through The General Secretary , All India 

Punjab National Bank Employees Association . 
ATPE1PANCES : 
From the Emploijer -- Shri A . Roy Chowdhry , LabourOfficer , P . N Bank 

Calcutta , 
Fri Corkmen- Shri C L . Bharatdwaj, General Secretary of All India 

Punjab National Bank Employees Association . 
IN , NT : Bank 

DISTT : Daltonganj (Bihar) . 

AWARD 
- Notification No. 51 ( 85 ) /64 -LRIV dated 19th March . 1965 , the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) , 
Government of India , referred an industrial dispute , as stated in the schedule to 
the order of reference, to Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , from , 


SEC, 8 ( ii) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


1791 


where the case was transferred to this Tibunal by Notification No. 8 /25 /67 -LRII 
dated 25th April 1967: 

Matter of Dispute 
Whether having regard to the duties performed during the period from 4th 

July , 1960, to the 31st August , 1964, Shri Raj Mani Dubey is entitled 
to be designated as Assistant Cashier and to the payment of clerical 
scale of pay and special allowance prescribed for Assistant Cashiers 
in the Award dated the 7th June, 1962 of the National Industrial 
Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) , Bombay published with the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S . O . 2028 , dated the 13th June , 1962 ? If not , to what other relief is 

the workman entitled ? 
2 . Both parties filed their statements of claim before the Dhanbad Tribunal . 
On the first date of hearing which was 26th May 1967 at Allahabad the Bank filed 
a rejoinder and preliminary earing was rendered . On the next date of hearing 
which was 3rd October 1967 at Allahabad , an application of the Union dated 11th 
February 1967 was considered for production of certain documents by the Bank . 
After hearing both sides the Bank was directed to file some of the papers and 
for others it was directed that the Bank shall made the records available for 
inspection to Union representative and a joint statement may be filed in respect 
of relevant matters so that it may not be necessary to producee the records in the 
case . Such a joint statement was prepared and filed on the next date and shall 
be referred as Ex . I. Evidence in the case then commenced on 30th October 1967 
when workmen s four witnesses were examined . The evidence for the Bank was 
recorded on the following date and the Bank examined two witnesses. Arguments 
were thereafter heard . The party desired to submit a summary of their agur 
ments in writing which they have done and are part of the record . 


3 . The workman concerned , Rajmani Dubey , was appointed as a Cash Peon on 
in lit Daltonganj Branch of the Bank on 3rd November 1958 by means of an 
appointment letter ( Ex . E / 14 ) filed by the Bank and Ex . W / 1 filed by the work 
man concerned . There is some difference between the two as in Ex . W / 1 be 
siries the salary of Rs. 34 , it is stated that he would be paid Rs. 5 as special 
allowance and also dearness allowance , a fact which is not found entered in the 
Bank s copy of the appointment letter. The fact is, however, immaterial as 
admittedly he has been given the special allowance of Rs. 5 p . m . When he 
joined as a Cash Peon the Cash Department had a Head Cashier . Sri Ilarikesh 
Dubey ( E . W . 1 ) and an Assistant Cashier , Sri Iswari Prasad ( W .W2) . Sri Ishwari 
Prasad , the Assistant Cashier , was transferred to Jahanabad Branch on 4th July 
1960 and it is an admitted position that no Assistant Cashier as such was appointed 
in his place by the Bank . The case for the workman is that he was required to 
render the duties of an Assistant Cashier after transfer cf Sri Ishwari Prasad 
which he continued to render till June , 1964. He had been rendering all the 
duties which Sri Ishwari Prasad was doing and therefore became entitled to be 
promoted and to the remuneration of Assistant Cashier as prescribed by the 
Bank award commonly known as Shastry and Desai Award . On the other hand , 
the contention of the Bank is that Rajmani Dubey continued to work as Cash 
Peon and the Head Cashier alone discharged the functions of the Cash Deptt . 
iacıuding that of the Assistant Cashier . The sort controvery , therefore , is wbether 
during the period 4th July , 1960 to 31st August, 1964 when there was 70 Assistant 
Cashier , Rajmani Dubey rendered the duties of the Assistant Cashier and if so , 
whether in addition to his duties as Cash Peon or wholly as Assistant Cashier . 
It may be mentioned that after 31st August, 1964 another Assistant Cashier was 
posted in the branch namely , Sri Nagendra Prasari ( W . W . 1 ) . There is some con 
troversy as to when Sri Nagendra Prasad actually started working as Assistant 
Cashier but we are not concerned with that inasmuch as the reference is restrict 
ed to the date of 31st August, 1964 . 

4 . The duties of Cash Peon are enumerated in a Bank Circular dated 3rd 
Januar , 1967 ( copy Ex . E / 4 ) which are as follows :-- 

Staff Departmentni Circular No. 228 
Dilties of Cash Prons : 
: . Presenting hundies and bills of all sorts to the parties . 
" . Going to the Treasuries for getting the bills passed . 
3 . Presentation of documents . 
4 Bundling and stiching of currency notes under direct supervision of 

cashiers . 


4792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1989 


[Part 11 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


5. Helping the cashiers in opening the cash and distributing tokens to the 

Ledger Keepers. 
6 . Sewing of parcels of currency notes unter direct supervision (if cashiors . 
7. Assorting and seoling of payment vouiners under direct supervision of 

un officer . 
8 . Assisting in opening dak and arranging the same. 
Besides the above, they are expected to do such type of other work , not 

of a clerical nature , as is entrusted to them by the Manager or lead 

of the Department, 
As a Cash Peon , Rajmani Dubey , admittedly had been doing these duties. The 
duties and functions of an Assistant Cashier are nowhere stated either in any of 
the circulars of the Bank or in any Bank awards and have to be determined 
with the prevalent practice in the Bank . There is no doubt that after the trang 
ter of Sri Ishwari Prasad , Rajmani Dubey was the only person who remained 
in the Cash Department to assist the Head Cashier and there is ample material 
to show that he had been rendering some of the jobs which do not strictly fall 
within the realm of duties of Cash Peon . It was admitted by the Bank that the 
clearance with the State Bank of India and the Bank of Bihar namely , deposits 
and withdrawals with these banks was rendered by Rajmani Dubey . These 
transactions ran into huge amounts. This obviously was not a job of a Cush 
Peon . Further , it is an admitted position in the joint inspection statement (EX . I ) 
that from June 17, 1960 the insured cash parcels to post ofice were carried by 
Rajmani Dubey and he signed on these insured parcel registers. This is also 
not a part of the duty of a Cash Peon . It is a further admitted fact that in the 
absence of Head Cashier whether on leave or otherwise Rajmani Dubey worked 
for him in the Cash Department as a Cashier. This runs into several days and 
are enumerated in the joint inspection statement ( Ex . I) . He has been paid 
special allowance for having worked as Head Cashier . A peon is not ordinarily 
allowed to work as a Head Cashier unless he has been trusted and tried as Asstt. 
Cashier, The Bank actually treated him as an extra cashier in some of their 
communications to the State Bank , Ex , E / 1 , E / 2 , and E / 3 are letters dated oth 
November 1960 , 11th November 1960 and 22nd May 1962 in which the Bank 
while addressing these letters to the Agent, State Bank of India , for safe custody 
receipt ur for cxchange of notes which in Ex , E / 3 , is to the tune of Rs. 30 ,000 , 
it was requested that the Cashier , Sri Rajmani Dubey , be issued the same. Not 
only this, the Bank Manager , Shri J. L . Khattar ( E . W . 2 ) admitted that he uddress 
ed a communication to the Head Office ( Ex , W / 4 ) in which it was stated that 
the Cash Department was managed single handed by the Head Cashier, Shi H . K . 
Dubey , with the help of a Cash Peon and the Head Cashier entrusted the job 
of Asstt. Cashier to the Cash Peon , Rajmani Dubey, Sri Khattar, however , did 
not admit the date which is recorded as įst August 1967, but the fact of sending 
the letter was admitted by him . As a matter o ." fact , a special allowance for 
doing extra job of Asstt. Cashier was allowed to Rajmani Dubey on the recom . 
mendation of Sri Khattar himself as is manifest by his letter dated 121 h Decem 
ber 1963 ( Ex . E / 19 ) and the Head Office letters , Ex. E / 20 & E /21. Rajmani 
Dubey had since been receiving this extra allowance which was raised from 
Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 . The whole controversy , however , centres round the fact whe 
ther Rajmani Dubey in the normal course worked at the cash counter also for 
receiving and disbursing of cash as Asstt . Cashier . The Bank has vehemently 
denied that in the presence of the Head Cashier , Sri H , K , Dubey, cash transac 
tions of the Bank were rendered by Rajmani Dubey and the stand appears to be 
correet in this respect . Except for those days when the Head Cashier was on 
leave, it does not appear that Rajmani Dubey normally attended at the counter 
for receipt or disbursement of cash . The joint inspection statement (Ex . I) Aled 
by the parties would show that Cashier Receipts & Payment Log Books were 
maintained and entries made by the Head Cashier alone. The Head Cashier 
signed on all the vouchers during the entire period ist July 1960 to 31st May 
1965 except for five dates which are mentioned at page of the joint inspection 
note and are 3rd January 1963, 14th November 1963, 11th January 1964, 20th 
January 1964 and 21st January 1964. On these dates also most of the vouchers 
were signed by the Head Cashier and a few alone were signed by Rajmani Dubey , 
For his working at the cash counter for reception of cash reliance is placed on 
the fact that denomination and number of notes are found entered on certain 
receįpt vouchers between the period Ist May 1984 to 21st November 1964 which 
are detailed at pages 2 , 3 and 4 of the joint inspection note ( Ex . I ) . Details of 
denomination of notes and number are not stated in vouchers on other cutes 
except some of those mentioned in the joint inspection note . Head Cashier made 
ny such entries and Rajmani Dubey also did not endorse the denomination on 


Src , 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4793 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


all the vouchers signed by him as cashier . The Bank s representativa appended 
à note which has been marked as Ex . E / 16 and the grounds stated therein raised 
a tremencious amount of suspicion in this regard. The first noticeable feature 
is that when Rajmani Dubey himself worked as Head Cashier independently he 
did not niake such endorsements of denomination as mentioned in paragraph 2 
01 Ex . E / 16 . Sri Ishwari Prasad ( W . W . 2 ) admitted that so long he was Asstt. 
Cashier, he did not enter the number and denomination of notes on cash vouchers. 
Sri Nageshwar Prasad ( W . W . 1 ) also admitted that there was no practice of such 
cuiuisement betore he took over. The Head Cashier , Sri H . K . Dubey ( E . W . 2 ) 
also made no such endorsements . It is curious to find why Rajmani Dubey made 
these endorsements and that too only on some of the cash receipt vouchers and 
not all. The dates during which these endorsements have been made on some 
of the vouchers are confined to the period from May , 1964 onwards ; obviously 
when the controversy had arisen and the clair of the workman , Rajmani Dubey , 
had been taken up by the Union . This interpolation was possible because payment 
vouchers alone were kept in the Strong Room and receipt vouchers after they 
were bundled were kept with the Accountant. Rajmani Dubey was confronted 
with some of the entries and he could not give a plausible explanation for the 
same. le V as cuestioned by way of example wit s respect to two vouchers , 
Ex . E / 5 and E . 5 / A , through which a sum of Rs. 1,652 was received . He had 
received this amount on 12th May , 1964 for issue of one Bank draft of Rs. 650 
and another drait of Rs. 1 ,000 with bank charges of Re. 1 for each draft . The 
party tendering the notes had given the details on the back of the receipt voucher 
No , 9 and Rajmani Dubey had initialled the same on the right side of the ictal 
amount of Rs. 1 .652. There was no occasion for him to make further endorsement of 
Rs. 1 ,001 on Ex . E75 when the denomination had been given by the party kimself 
on Ex . E . 5 / A . He was asked to explain this but he gave no reply . In the note 
submitted by Sri Khattar (Ex . E . 16 ) he has illustrated such incongruous conduct 
in paragraph 5 . It is evident that after the controversy had arisen and demand 
made , Rajmani Dubey managed to lay his hands on some of the bundles of receipt 
vouchers and in order to create evidence that he received cash at the counter he 
contrived to make these entries about the number and denominations of the notes 
tendered with each vouchers and which significantly are not uniformly recorded . 
A glaring proof of the fact is that on 30th May , 1964 he was on leave as is proved 
by his leave application Ex . E / 13 . Curiously , however , even on this date also 
entries are found of the number and denomination of the notes on the back of 
the cash vouchers . He made a vain attempt to explain although he had applied 
for leave to join the marriage of one of his relations, on the insistence of the 
Manager , he continued to work and left the Bank only one hour early from the 
closing time. An explanation of this nature can hardly carry conviction . Another 
circumstance on which reliance was placed as the production of a number of 
rough slips ( Ex . W / 2 ) typed copies of which are Ex . W . 2 / A showing that he 
used to inaintain record of cash transactions . These also commenced from 
19th October , 1964 onwards and these rough loose chits obviously were managed 
and kept by him to boster up proof. No reliance can be placed on this material. 
In this connection , it was stated that there was a shortage once of Rs . 160 vnd 
he had to make up the deficiency . Had it been a fact , the point should have 
been specifically stated in the statement of claim . It was introduced for the first 
time in evidence. Both the Head Cashier , Sri H . K . Dubey , and the Manager , 
Sri Khattar , denied the fact. From the consideration of these facts , it is abun 
dantly clear that normally he was not working at the counter for the reception 
and disbursement oi cash during the period . Rest of the duties of an Assistant 
Cashier were discharged by him in addition to his own duties as a Cash Fecn 
and for which the Bank remunerated him with an extra allowance of Rs. 10 . 
Since , however , he had rendered all other duties of Asstt. Cashier recompense cf 
an extra allowance is a poor reward for his doing the double duties of a Cash 
Peon and an Asstt. Cashier . He should have been paid officiating allowance in 
accordance with paragraph 178 of the Shastry Award as modified by the L . A . T ., 
so long that award was applicable and thereafter as directed in paragraph 6 .56 
of ihe Desai Award . 

Decision 
It is held that during the period under reference Rajiani Dubey besides 
working as a Cash Peon worked mostly as an Asstt . Cashier also . After making 
Necessary adjustment of the special allowance paid to him , it is directed that 
the Bank shall pay him the officiating allowance in accordance with the Desai 
Award as contained in paragraph 6 . 50 for the period since when the Award 
became enforceable and for the prior period in accordance with the paragraph 178 
of the Shastry Award as modified by the L . A . T . He is not entitled to be resignated 
as an Asstt. Cashier, nor is he entitled to any special allowance of Asstt . Cashier 


4794 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


(PART N 


R 


M111 


Um 


there being no Asstt. Cashier above the level of routine clerks in the Punjab 
National Bank so as to attract the relevant paragraph 164 ( B ) 5 and 6 of the 
Shastry Award and paragraphs 5 . 282 (9 ) and 5 . 282 ( 10 ) of the Desai Award . This 
officiating allowance shall be payable to him for the period under reference 4th 
July , 1960 to 31st August, 1964 . No order for costs . 

( Sd . ) G . C . ACARWAL . 

Presidiog mer 

30 - 11 - 1967 

No. # . 51 (85 ) /64- LRIV 1 
S . O . 4543. . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947), the Centrai Governnent hereby publishes the folloving award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between he employers in 
relation to Messrs B . Patnaik Mines (Private ) Limited , Barbil and their workmer. . 
which was received by the Central Government on the 19th December . 1967. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCITTA 

REFERENCE No . 122 OF 1966 
Penriks : 
Employers in relation to Messrs B . Patnaik Mines ( Private ) li vind , 

AND 
Their woránen . 


PRESENT : 


Shri San. Sen - -Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Empoyers - Shr . D . Narsingh , Advocate . 

Ovi behalf of it orkmen - Absent 
STATE : Cri sa 

AWARD 


INDUs. is : Minr 3 


By Order No. 37 / 52 / 65 -LEI dated 1st February 1966 . the Central Government 
ieferred for adjudicatioid an industrial dispute between the employers in relatio :1 
io M / S . B . Patnaik mines (Private ) Limited , Boroil and their workmen in resperi 
of the inatters nentioned in the following schedule : 
“ ) . Whether the recruitment of workmen through the Coalfield Recruiting 

Organisation /Gorakhpur Labour Organisation , by the management of 
Messrs B . Patnaik Mines (Private ) Limited : Post Office Barbil, Dist 
Keonjhar, for employment in their iron and manganese mines with 
effect froin the 22nd November . 1965 and its further continuance are 

legal and justified ? 
2 . If not , what should be the position of the workmen so recruited vis -a -vis 

the workmen employed in these pines and retrenched by the ex 
raising contractors M / s. Girish Chandra and Brothers and Manmohan 
Singh ? " 


2 . At the instance of the Keonjhar Mines & Forest Workers union , the vurkmen 
employed departmentally and under raising contractors of Messrs 3 . Patnaik Mines 
(Private ) Limited went on strike in the different mines of the company from 
various dates in August 1964 ; workmen at one mine beginning the strike fro . n 10th 
August 1964 , at another mines from 16th August 1964 and at another from 20th 
August 1964 . There were conciliation proceedings before the Conciliation Officer, 
Central, Jharsaguda , and through his efforts a settlement was made betwetn the 
management and the union on 10th September 1964 and the terins were embodieri 
in a memorandum of settlement dated 10th September 1964 signed on behalf of the 
union by the General Secretary , Shri H . Behra and on behalf of the company, by 
the Secretary Shri N . Venkataraman . There were several terms in the agreement 
but in this case we are only concerned with Paragraph 12 of that memorandum of 
settlement, by which it was agreed that the management and union would jointly 
apply by 29th September 1964 to Shri D . C . Mohanty , President of Keonjhar Mines 
& Forest Workers Union to decide the dispute regarding the enoloyment of work 
men recruited through Coalfields Recruiting Organisation or Gorakhpur Labour 
Department in the Iron Ore and Mangenese Mines of Messrs B . Patnaik Mines 
(Private ) Limited . The joint application was made accordingly to Shri D . ( 


SEC, 34ii ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4795 


www 


. 


WAT 


. 


Mohanty , and Shri Mohanty after hearing the parties made an award on 15th 
January 1965 . Shri Mohanty decided that employment of workmen recruiteri 
throug ? woalfields Recruiting Organisation or Gorakhpur Labour Department 
should not be continued and that the ernployment of workinen recruited through 
these organisations should be discontinued by 15th March 1965 . The management 
accepted the award for the time being and discontinued the employmeat of the 
labour recruited through the C . R . O . and the G - L - D . But on 25th March 1965 the 
management gave notice of their intention to terminate the agreement recorded in 
the memorandum of settlement dated 10th Septeniber 1964 on the expiry of two 
months from the date of the police . From 22nd November, 1965 the management 
started recruiting labour through the Coalields Recruiting Organisation ; 54 Gorakh 
pur labourers were recruited in the month of Ivovember , 1965 and ultimately the 
number of such labourers rose to 99 . The union made a complaint to the A . L . C . 
Central, Jharsaguda against the recruitinent oi the Gorakhpur Jaboir, by a letter 
dated 2011 November 1965. No agreed settlement could be arrived at during the 
conciliation proceedings and accordingly the matter has been referred to adjudica 
ticon 


3 . According to the written statement of the unior , the recruitment of workmen 
thrcrigh C . R . O . and Gorakhpur Labour Department is illegal because it is in con 
travention of the award of Shri D . ( . Vonanty win the management agreed to 
accept as final and binding , and as the recruitrnent was made without notifying the 
vacancies to the appropriate enployment exchange as required bv tic Employrient 
Exchange (Conipulscry Notification of Vacancies) Act, 1959. Further, according to 
the union . the management had by a mamorandum cí settlement dated 23rd Sep 
tember, 1965 agreed to offer employment to the workmen retrenched by ex - raising 
contractors , Messrs Girish Chandra & Bros, and Shri Manmohan Singh , and without 
offering employment to all such retrenched workmen the management recruiter 
C . R . O . labour . 

4 . The management in their writ en statement raised a preliminary objectiori 
that the mode of recruitment by he employers could not foror the subject matter 
of an industrial dispute , as the management was entitled to recruit such workrnen 
as they wanted by any mode of recruitinent. Without pre udice to the preliminary 
objection , the management took the stand that the recruitment of Gorakbpur Labour 
through the C . R . O . made from 22nd November . 1965 could not be considered illegal 
because the award of Shri D . C . Mohanty formed a part of the agreement dated 
10th September. 1964 , and the management had after the expiry of more than 
6 months from the date of the agreemont given notice of termination of the agree 
ment after the expiry of two months from the date of the notice , and so the agree 
ment including the award no lor:ger had eflect after 25th May , 1965 , the notice of 
termination have been given on 25th March 1965 . Accordingly , the management 
claimed that they were entitled to recruit Gorakhpur Labour after 25th May , 1965 , 
but they actually did so from 22nd November , 1965 . As regards failure to notify 
the vacancies to the enployment exchange officer of the locality , ihe management 
stated that after the award by Shri D . C . Mohanty the managerrient approached the 
Officer -in - charge of the Employment Exchange at Joda for supply of piece - rated 
workmen for the mining department of the company, but the officer - in - charge of the 
Employment Exchange expressed his inability to do so and therefore the company 
did not consider it necessary to notify the vacancies which they filled up from 22nd 
November , 1965 . As regards giving employment to the workmen retrenched by the 
ex - raising contractors, Messrs Girish Chandra & Bros . and Manmohan Singh , the 
management stated that they had offered employment to these retrenched workmen 
either directly under the company or under some of their existing raising contrac 
tors . But some had not accepted the offer of employment and the management was 
not responsibile for those workmen . The management claimed to have complied 
with the terms of agreement contained in the Memorandum dated 23rd September. 
1965 and stated that the recruitment of C . R . O . Jabour was made only after no more 
workmen out of the retrenched labourers were available for employmenit . 


5 . At the hearing the union has not been represented . On three previous dates 
fixer for hearing, the hearing was adjourned on the prayer of the Ceneral Secretary 
of the Union . The General Secrotary again sent a telegram asking for adiour nent 
on the 4 h date of hearing fixed , namely 6th December, 1967 and Shri R . N 
Banerjee , Advocate , appeared with a copy of the telegram and vert:ally asked for 
adiournent. Under Rule 10B ( 5 ) of the Central Rules under the Industrial Dis 
putes Act. the tribunal is not ordinarily to grant more than three adjournments in 
all at the instance of one of the parties to the dispute unless there are very special 
circumstances . In the present case I was not satisfied that there was sufficient 
reason for granting an adjournment again and when the prayer for adjournment 
was refused , Shri Banerjee withdrew from the case and so the case was taken up 
ex -parte . 


4796 


THIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART 11 


6 . I do not think that there is any subtance in the preliminary objection urgecl 
by Shri Narsingh , Under laissez faire economy, the Management had apsolule free 
com both as to appointment and dismissal of workmen , but at present with adop 
tlon by the State of ideas of Social Welfare , this freedom has been considerably 
restricted ; dismissal by the employers has become subject to challenge byg trade 
unions and may undoubtedly be alijudicated by tribunals ; and even in the matter 
of employment, i a trade union cousisting of a number of employees raisen objec 
tion to the recruitment of a class of persons, that also becomes the subject of an 
industrial dispute. The mode of recruicerai may also form the subject of an indus 
trial dispute . It is for the appropriate statutory authority or tribunal to decide 
how far there is any rational ground of objeciion by the trade union , but there is 
no doubt that such an industria dispute can be raised . 

7 . The management examined one witness , namely the Labour Omcer of the 
company , Shri S . K . Mohanty , and has proved copies of the relevant documents . 
The Industrial Disputes Act contains provisions relating to awards by arbitrators ; 
for the award of an arbitrator have the legal binding force for one year as 
provided by Section 19 of the Act , it is necessary that the agreement to reler 
a dispute to arbitration be forwarded to the appropriate Government whereupon 
the Govertiment will publish the arbitration agreement in the Official Gazette , 
vide Section 10 - A clause ( c ) of the Act, and that the award of the arbitratur shall 
also be sent to the appropriate Government for publication under Section 17 oť 
the Act. The award become enforceable only after the publication of the same 
in the Gazette ode Section 17 - A of the Act . In the present case although there 
was an agreement to refer the dispute as to employment of Gorakhpur 1. Lour 
to the arbitration of Shri D . C . Mohanty , it was not an arbitration within the 
meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, because the agicement to terer tac 
dispute to the arbitrator was not sent to the appropriate Government for public 
dation ; nor was the award made by the arbitrator Shri D , C . Mohanty sent to the 
Government for publication . Accordingly the award which was made by Shri 
D . C . Mohanty has no more force than the agreeinent made before the Conciliation 
Oncer from which it aroge . That agreement of which a copy is Ext. A was made 
on 10th Septernber, 1964 . A settlement made by agreement in the course of 
conciliation proceedings is binding on the parties for the period of 6 months except 
where the period for which the settlement shall be in force is embodied in the 
terms of agreement itself ; and after such period , continues to be binding until 
the expiry of 2 months from the date on which a notice in writing of an intention 
to terminate the settlement is given by one of the parties to the other party . 
The agreement, Ext. A , does not mention any period for which the agreement 
vould be in force . It is no doubt mentionied in clause ( 11 ) of Paragraph 12 that 
the decision of Shri D . C . Mohanty would be final and binding ; but this could 
only mean that neither party would appeal against that decision so long as the 
Agreement was in force and the decision of the arbitrator would be binding so 
long as the agreement was in force. Therefore the normal life of the agreement 
would be 6 months and thereafter for 2 months after the service of notice of 
termination of the agreement. A copy of the notice of termination is Ext. C . It 
vas given on 25th March , 1965 and therefore from 25th May, 1965 the agreement 
was no longer in force , and it must be held that the award of arbitrator also 
become ineffective from that date . There is therefore no substance in the plea 
of the union that the recruitment of Gorakhpur labour was illegal because it 
contraveneri the award by Shri D . C . Moharty . 

8 . The management also produced Ext. Di, a letter dated 20th January , 1965 
from the Officer - in -Charge of the Employment Exchange Once at Jode in Keonjhar 
district. The Officer stated that the local labourers registered at the Employment 
exchange were not willing to work as piece - rated workmen except in the TISCO 
mines and therefore the office was not in a position to supply mining labourers 
to Messrs . B . Patnaik Mines (Private ) Limited . The management has rot given 
ovidence to show that in the beginning of November 1965 hefore the CRO 
labourers were recruited , a notice of the vacancies was given to the Ofice of 
the Employment Exchange at Joda , and it must be presumed that no such notice 
was given . But in view of the letter , Ext. Di, which they had received after trying 
to obtain labour from the Einployment Exchange shortly after the award by 
Shri D , C . Mohanty , the management did not consider further notincation oť the 
vacancies to the Employment Exchange as necessary . In any case , employment 
of labourers without notification of the vacancies might make the emplovers 
Hable to a punishment prescribed by the Employment Exchange (Compulsury 
Notification of Vacancies ) Act , 1959 , but it would not make the appointments 
ilegal. In this connection reference may be made to a decision of the Madras 
High Court, 1967 II LLJ 243 (Consmopolitan) i Jul, Vs. District Einployment Omrer , 
Nadras ) where it was held that notwithstanding the obligation to report the 


Sec , $(11)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


- 4797 


mmm 


vacancies, the Act does not impose the further obligation upon the employer to 
Tecruit any person through the Employment Exchange to fill a vacancy reported , 
and that the Act was intended to serve a statistical need to assess future policy 
in connection with the imparting of training to political employees. I, therefore 
hold that the employment of the Gorakhpur Labour through C . R . O . was not illegal 
because of the failure to notify the vacancies to the local Employment Exchange 
Office , though I may add a rider that in future the management would be well 
advised to comply strictly with the provisions of the Employment Exchange 
( Compulsory Notification of Vacancies ) Act , 1959. 

9 . In view of the finding on the first issue referred for adjudication , the second 
issue does not ürisc in view of the terms in which it is framed : because the 
second issue is to be considered only if the recruitment of workmen through 
C .R . O . or G . L . O . 1 : found to be not legal and not justified . The management has 
however given eridenve lo show that the agreement of 23rd Septeniler , 1965 vide 
the memorandum of settlement, Ext, E , has been fully implemented by the com 
pany. Under Paragraph 1 of the terms of settlement, the management agreed 
that they should prepare a list of all the workmen who were previously working 
under Messrs Girish Chandra & Bros, and Shri Maninohan Singh , ex - raising 
contractors and who applied to the management for fresh employment by 30th 
Septeraber. 1965 , and that the management would provide fresh employment to 
10 senior most wyorkmen of the list directly under them in one of their iron ore 
mines and the next 20 workmen included in the list under their raising contractors 
by 15th October , 1965 and that future vacancies directly under the managemcnt 
or under any of the raising contractors would be Alled from among the remaining 
workmen included in the list wie offered themselves for employment on being 
given intiination . Shri S . K . Mohanty who deposed for the management stated 
that 102 applications were received from the retrenched workmen of the ex - raising 
contractors , ard a list of the 103 persons was prepared and a copy thereor was 
also sent to the General Secretary of the Union , Ext . F is the copy of the letter 
vent to the union together with the list of 102 persons. Shri Mohanty also stated 
that employment, was given to 75 of these men , 22 being employed directly under 
the company and 53 under existing raising contractors and the remaining 27 were 
offered employment but did not turn up for employment. Ext. G is a statement 
prepared hy Shri Mohanty showing the dates when these men were offered em 
ployment and showing also whether they were cmployed directly under the com 
pany or under the raising contractors. The statement shows that hefore 15th 
October , 1965 , the date mertionna in Pararaph 1 of the memorandum of settle 
ment. Ext. F . direct employment under the company was offered to more than 
10 of the seniormost men . It was on 13th October , 1965 offered to the Arst 20 
persons in the list. At the same time on 13th October, 1965 letters of employment 
under the raising contractors were issued to the next 25 persons on the list. 
Other persons mentioned in the list were employed siihssequently as vacancies 
aroca and that they were offered employment befora 22nd Novmber , 1965 , which 
is the date from which CRO L - hour was recruited . Thus the recruitment of CRO 
Labour was not in contravention of the agreemont dated 23rd September , 1965 
and not to the prejudice oť the retrenched workmen of the two ex - raising con 
tractors . 

10 . My award therefore is as follows — 

1. Recruitment of workmen through Coalfeld Recrulting Organisation / 
Gorakhnur Labout Orgarisation by the mongement of Messrs . B . Patnaik Mines 
( Private ) Limited from 22nd November , 1965 was legal and justifed . 

2 . In view of the finding on the first issue , this issue does not arise ; at the 
same time my findinir is that the worlmen previously emploved in the mines 
who were retrenched by X - raising contractors , Messrs . Girish Chandra & Bros. 
and Shri Manmohan Sinch were offered employment ly the management in terms 
of the memorandum of settlement dated 23r1 Senteinher , 1965 and the recruitment 
through C . R . O . Or G . L . O . was not made to the prejudicc of these workmen . 

( Sd .) S . K . SEN . 
Datrd , 67 : December, 1967 . 

Presiding Officer . 
[No. 37 / 52 / 65-LRI. ] 


S . O . 4544 - In pursuance of secticu 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) the Central Government hereby publishes the following award or the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, ir thr inrlustrial dispute between the emplovers in 
relation to Paonla Manganese Mines of R . S Seth Gopikishan Agrawal, Mining 


4708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1987/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART 1 -- 


Proprietors , Tumsar and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 12th December , 1967. 


BEFORE THE CENT VAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM 

LABOUR COURT . JABALPUR . 

Dated November 30 , 1967 . 
PRESENT; 
Sri G . C . Agarwala . - Presiding Officer , 

HEF , Cask No , CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 114 ) OF 1947. 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to Paonia Manganese Mines of R . S , Seth Gopikishan 

Agrawal Mining Proprietors, Tumsar. 


Vs. 


Their Workmen through Shri K . Nutneshwar, Secretary, Samyukta Khadan 

Mazdoor Sangh , P . O . Rajnandgaon . 
APPEARANCES 

For employers - Shri B . R . Runbhe, Authorised representative . 
For workmen .- - S /Sri P . K . Thakur , Vice President and Sri K . Nutnesh 

war, Secretary of the Union , 
DISTRICT : Balabhat. ( M . P .) 

INDUSTRY : Manganese Mine. 

AWARD 
By Notifcation No. 35 / 26 / 60 -LRI dated 5th June, 1967, the Ministry of Labour , 
Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) , re 
ferred the following matters of dispute, as stated in the schedule to the order of 
reference, for adjudication to this Tribunal : 

Matters of Dispute 
( a ) Whether the demand of the workers of Poania Manganese Mines P . O . 

Tirodi Teh Waraseoni, Distt. Balaghat ( M . P .) of M / s . R . S . Seth 
Gopikishan Agrawal Tumgar for increase of wages is justificd ? If so , 

to what relief are they entitled and from which date ? 
( b ) Whether the demand of the workers of Faonda Manganese Mines P . O . 

Tirodí T eh . Waraseoni Distt. Balaghat ( M . P . ) of M / S . R . S , Seth 
Gopikishan Agrawal, Tumsar for payment of bonus for the year 1965 

Is justiſed ? If so , to what relief are they ertitled ? 
After issue of notices, the Union , Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor Şangh , P .O . 
Rajnandgaon , Aled the statement of claim . No statement of claim was Aled by the 
employers and proceedings were recorded er parte on 19th September , 1907. On 
the next date of hearing which was 24th October . 1967 , the Union euplied for 
time to compromise the dispute and on this date which was the adjourned date 
for hearing , compromise settlement has been filed which an annexure to this 
award . From the terms of the compromise settlement, it would appear that the 
management has agrecd to increase the wages of the workers as stated in para 
graph 1 of the settlement and have further paid Bonus to the entitled workers in 
accordance with the provisions of the Bonus Act. The issues under reference 
are decided in terms of the compromise settlement which shall be effective from 
the date of this award . 

$ d . / - G . C . AGARWALA, 
Presiding Omcer, 

30 - 11 - 1967. 


ANNEXURE : 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM 

LABOUR COURT AT JABALPUR . 

REFERENCE No. CGIT / LC ( R ) 114 /67 
Employers in Relation to the Paonia Mines District Balaghat of M / s . R . S , 

Seth Gopikishan Agrawal, Mines Proprietor, Tumsar. 


AND 


Their Workmen of Paonia Mine. 
For the Employers . Shri S . K . Shrivastava , Agent of R . S . Seth Gopikisbal. 

Agrawal, Tumsar, 


Suc , 8(11)] 


THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


4799 


For the Workmen . - Shri K . Nutneshwar, Secretary, Samyukta Khadan 

Mazdoor Sangh , Tirodi ( M . P .) . 
Both the Partics do hereby agree : 
1 . A To pay Rs. 2.10 per day for surface piece rated workers employed on Bed 

ore mining ; 
B To pay Rs. 1.95 per day for surface piece rated workers employed on 

Float ore mining . 
C Minimum daily wage for adults engaged on surface ( other than actual 

Mining ) shall be Rs. 1. 75 per day for Male and Rs. 1. 60 for female . 


It is also agreed that all the wages of the different categories have to be fiverag 
ed every four weeks and if the average of such four weeks is not equivalent to 
the wake mentioned in the category mentioned above, then the employer shall 
make the difference good to the employees. 

2 . The Bonus for the year 1965 (nineteen sixtyfive ) has been paid to the entitl 
ed workers at Paonia mine in accordance with Bonus Act 1965 . 

Both parties have agreed that this Settlement shall come into force from the 
date of the consented award given by the Tribunal and not with retrospective 
effect. The Parties pray that an award be made in the above terms in this refer 
ence . 

Dated at Tumsar the 201h day of November 1967. 
For the Employers : 

For the Workmen of Paonia Mines : 
Sd ./ - S , K , SIIRIVASTAVA, 

Sd./ - K . NUTNEŞHWAR, 
Agent, 

Secretary , 
Sd . / - R . S . SETH GOPIKISHAN , AGRAWAL . 

Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor 
Tumsar . 

Sangh , Tirodi. 
Witnesses : - - 

1. Sd. / - T . R SINGH , 
2 . Sd . / - DP AGNIHOTAI, 


PART OF AWARD . 

Sd. / - G . C . AGARWALA, 
Presiding Officer , 
30 - 11- 1967. 

[ No. 35/ 26 /66 -LRI.] 
S . O . 4545 .- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) the Central Government hereby publishes the following swalu of the 
Industrial Tribunal Bombay in the Industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to Messry Dharsi Moolji, Bombay and their workmen which was received 
by the Central Government on j1th December , 1967. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY . 

REFERENCE No. CGIT - 6 OF 1967, 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Messrs . Dhạrsi Moolji , Bombay . 

AND 

their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri A . T . Zambre. — Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the employers.- - Shri Y . H . Rane , Manager and Shri K . S . Shah , Accoun 

tant, Dharsi Moolji, Bombay. 
For the workmen . - Shri H . K . Sowani, Advocate with Shri I. S . Sawant, 

Assistant Secretary , Transport and Dock Workers Union , Bombay . 


1830 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1967 / PAUSA 2 , 1889 


[PART II 


STATE : Maharashtra 

INDUSTRY : Ports and Dock , 
Dated at Bombay the 6th day of December 1967, 

AWARD PART I. 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No. 28 ( 5 ) / 67 -LR .III dated 27th March , 1967, have referred to this Trlbunal the 
Industrial dispute between the employers in relation to Messrs . Dharsi Moolji, 
Bombay , and their workmen represented by the Transport and Dock Workers 
Union , Bombay , in respect of ten demands as specified in the schedule attached 
to the order of reference and sought tlie finding of this Tribunal as to whether the 
demands put forth by the workmen were justificd . Demand No . 9 of this refer 
ence is in the following terms: -- 

SCHEDULE 


( 9 ) " Each employee should be paid an amount of six months wages as 

Bonus for the year 1964-65 and 1905 -66" 
2 . Notices under Ru e 10B ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Pules . 1957 , 
were sent to the parties and the union ( led ils written statement. The employers 
have not put forth their objections but the representatives of both the parties 
have in the mcantime negotiated and settled demand No. 9 slated above . 

3 . Both the parties have produced the document of the terms of settlement 
which is markeci annexure " A " . This memorandum of settlemcut hias been signed 
by the Secretary of the Transport and Dock Workers Union on oelalf of the 
workmen and the Manager and Accountant on behalf of the employers . Accord 
ing to the terms of settlement the employer s have agreed to pay to all the cate 
gories of their workmen bonus equivalent to 4 per cent of the total wagcs earned 
by each of them during the years 1964 - 65 and 1965 -66 . This amount is to be paid 
on or before the 5th December , 1967, subject to the conditions applicable under 
the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 . The company has also agreed to pay a further 
guin of Rs. 1 ,000 in addition to the abovementioned bonus for (Lisbursement among 
the employers . I find the terms of settlement fair and reasonablc and accordingly 
1 pass an award Part I in terms of annexurc " A " which shall form part of this 
awari and will dispose of demand No . 9 in the schedule . 
No order as to costs . 

Sd./ - A . T . ZAMENE . 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Bombay . 

ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE SHRI A , T . ZAMBRE, PRESIDING OFFICER CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No. CGIT / 6 OF 1967. 
BETWEEN : 

M / s. Dhursi Moolji 

AND 

Their Workmen . 
In the matter of workmen s demand relating to Provident Fund ete 

MAY IT PLEASE THE HONOURABLE TRIBUNAL , 
After the above reference was made to this Honourable Tribunal, hc Transport 
and Dock Workers Union , representing the employces of M / s . Dharşı Moolji, 
Bombay , discussed the demands relating to bonus for the years 1964-65 and 1985 - 60 
with the representatives of the said company and as a result of the said negotia 
tions the parties have reached a settlement as under ; 

Terms of Settlement 
1 . The employer firm namely ; M / s , Dhalsi Moolji agrees to pay to all categories 
of their workmen including Matharli workers bonus equivalent to 4 per cent of 
the total wages earned by each of them during thc years 1964 - 65 und 1965 - 66 on 
or before 5th of December , 1987. 


Scc, 3( 1)] 


TJIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4801 


2 . The above payment will be made subject to the conditions applicable to such 
payment under the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 , 

3 . The firm also agrees to pay a lump sum of Rs. 1, 000 ( Rupees one thousand 
only ) in addition to the abovementioned bonus for disbursement amongst the con 
terned cmployees in consultation with the Transport and Dock Workers Union , 
Bombay . 


In view of the above settlement thc parties pray that the Honourablc Tribunal 
may be pleased to make its Award in torms thereof. 
Bombay : 
Dated 30th November. 1967. 

S . ./ - Illegible, 

Secretary 
Transport and Dock Workers Union , Bombay . 

Sd ./ - Illegible , 

Manager , 
for M / s . Dharsi Moolji , Bombay . 

K . S . SHAJI. 

Accountant, 
for M / s . Dharsi Moolji , Bombay 

[No. 28 ( 5 ) /67- LRIII.) 
Noir Delhi, the 16th December 1967 
$ . O . 4546 . — Whereas a vacancy has occurred in the office of the Presiding Oncer 
of the Labour Court , Madras , constituted by the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S .O . 461, dated the 
5th February, 1983; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 8 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
$ . Rangarajan as the Presiding Officer of the said Labour Court. 

No . F . 1 / 109 / 67 -LRI. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 
S . O . 4547. - Whereas the employers in relation to Messrs . K C . Daga , Shri 
Wazir Shah , Faiz Mohammed , Fazal Shah and Champalal, Contractors of Messrs . 
Bikaner Gypsuns Limited , Bikaner and their workmen represented by the Gyp 
sum Mine Workers Union . Jamsar have jointly applied to the Central Govern 
ment for reference to a Tribunal of an industrial dispute that exists between 
them in respert of the inatters set forth in the said application and reproduced 
in the Schedule herrto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government is satisfied thal the said Gypsum Mine 
Workers Union represents it majority of the workmen ; 

Now , thcreťore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and yub . 
section ( 2 ) oť section 10) of the industrial Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which Shri 
Jawan Singh Ranawat shall be the Presiding Officer with Headquarters at Jaipur 
and reicis the sand dispute for udjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
1 . Whether any relief is due to the contractor s leading labourers as per 

demand No . 1 of scillement clated the 20th and 27th February , 1966 
in view of the interiin relief already granted with elect from 1st 
February 1964 and as per Tardeo Joshi Award with effect from 

Ist May, 1966 . 
2 . Whether the strike by the leading labourers with effect from 6th October . 

1967 was legal and justified and if so , whether they are justified to 
receive any compensation for the strike period . 


[No 24 / 33 /67-LRI.] 
S S SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


4802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 
8 . O . 4548 . - Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that the Mariajegu 
Match Industries was situated in Kadapanakunnu area which was a sparse area 
( that is, an area whose Insurable population was less than 500 ) in the district of 
Trivandrum in the State of Kerala , 

And , whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area , the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of the employer s special contrlbution 
under section 73 - F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1048 ) 
until enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the 
Central Government in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment Notiication 
No. F .6 ( 7 ) / 62 -HI, dated the 25th May, 1964 ; 

And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Kadapanakunnų area in the district of Trivandrum in the State of Kerala 
has now exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification , in the entries relating to serial No. 3 , 

the entry " Kodapanakunnu " in column 3 and the entry relating thereto 
in column 4 shall be omitted . 

[No. F . 8 / 22 /67 -HI. ] 


8 . 0 . 4549 . - Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that 1 . Patel Gordhan 
bhal Motibhaj, Jorda Factory . 2 . Dahyabhal Ishwarbhai Patel, Jorda Factory . 
3 . Geeta Iron and Brass Works. 4 . Dipee Engineering Corporation , were situated 
in Bajwa area which was a sparse area ( that is , an area whose Insurable pcpulation 
was less than 500 ) in the district of Baroda in the State of Gujarat. 

And , whereas by virtue of their location In a sparse area, the aforesaid factories 
were granted exemption from the payment of the employer s special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government through the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No , S .O . 2849 , dated the 4th September , 1963 ; 

And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Bajwa area in the district of Baroda in the State of Gujarat has now 
exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification , against serial No. 1 , the entry 

Bajwa in column 3 and all entries relating to " Bajwa" in Column 4 
shall be omitted , 


(No . F . 6 / 14 / 67-HI. ] 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1967 
S . O . 4550 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs. Syamala Rice Mill, Kuchipudi, Guntur District, State of Andhra Pradesh 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Fund Act , 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the gald establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the ist day of 
April , 1967 . 

(No. 8 / 57 / 87-PF -IL ] 


Src , B(11)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967/PAUSA 2, 1889 


14803 


S . O . 4551.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by gection 737 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government, having regard 
to the location of the factory , viz ., the Text Book Press , Bhubaneswar , which is 
in an implemented area , hereby exempts the said factory from the payment of 
the employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 18th December , 1987. 

(No. F . 6 ( 32 ) / 66 -HI. ] 


S . O . 4552 - Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
of the Geodetic and Research Branch Workshop , Survey of India , Dehra Dun , 
belonging to the Government of India , are otherwise in receipt of beneAts sub 
stantially similar to the benefits provided under the Employees State Insurance 
Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment 
and Rehabilitation , (Department of Labour and Employment) No. F . 6 ( 84 ) / 65 -HI, 
dated the 20th January , 1967 , the Central Government, after consultation with 
the Corporation hereby exempts the said Geodetic and Research Branch Workshop 
from all the provisions of the said Act for a further period of one year with 
effect from the 1st January , 1968 . 

[No. F . 6 ( 79 ) / 67-HI. ] 


New Delhi, the 14th December 1967 
8 . 0 . 4553 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Mesgrs T . V . S . Gonikoppal, Coorg, have agreed that the provisions of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
August, 1967 

[No. 8 /129 /67 /PF - II .] 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1967 
S . O . 4554 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 . (34 of 1948 ) , and having regard to the location of the 
factory in an implrmented area. the Central Government her by exempts the 
State Transport Maintenance Centre , Dhubri, belonging to the State Government 
of Assam from the payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA ot the sald Act for a further period of one year with effect from 
the 1st January , 1968 . 

[ No. F . 6 (80 ) / 67 -HI. } 


S . O . 4555 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73- F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 o 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts 
the Central Dairy , Nagpur Milk Scheme, Nagpur , having regard to its lccation 
in an implemented area , from the payment of the employer s special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with 
effect from the 2nd January , 1968 . 

[No. F . ( 63 ) / 86 -HI. ) 
MAHINDRA KISHORE , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1967 
8 . 0 . 4556 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act , 1948 ( 0 of 1948 ) , the 


4804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[ Part II 


Central Government hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the 
Madras Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957, 
the same having been previously published as required by the said sub -section , 
namely : 

1. This Scheme may be called the Madras Unregistered Dock Workers (Regu - . 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1967. 

2 . In the Schedule to the Madras Unregistered Dock Workers ( Regulation of 
Employment) Scheme, 1957, after Item ( 6 ) , the following item shall be added , 
namely 
" ( 7) Labour employed in handling iron and steel, billets and timber." 

[No. 62 / 3 /67-Fac. II.] 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Оfice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 9th November 1967 
$ . 0 . 4557. - - In exercise of the powers ccnferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 
1954 , the Central Government hereby appoints the Naib Tehsildar (Sales ) of 
the State Rehabilitation Department to be a Managing Omcer for the purpose of 
performing the functions assigned to a Managing Officer by or under the bald 
Act for the entire District of Şimla , in respect of the properties referred to in 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing 
& Rehabilitation (Department of Rehabilitation ) No. 3 ( 37 ) / L & R -63 dated the 
5th March , 1964 . 

The notification issued by this Department vide No . 3 (37) / L & R -63 dated the 
18th April, 1964 appointing the Tehsildars (Mahal ) , Kasauli and Kardaghat and 
Nalb Tehsildar (Mahal) Simla is hereby withdrawn . 

(No. 3 (37) / L & R -63.] 

A . G . VASWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & 

Ex-Officio Under Secy . 


( Department of Rehabilitation ) 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 


New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 


S . O . 4558 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on him by Sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 ( XII of 1954 ) , 
Chief Settlement Commissioner hereby delegates to Shri Gulab L . Ajwani, Settle 
ment Commissioner , with effect from the forenoon of 8th November, 1967, the fol 
lowing powers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner : 


( 1 ) Powers to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 

Officer and pass orders in the case under proviso to sub - section ( 3 ) of 

Section 4 of the said Act. 
( 2 ) Special powers of revision under Section 6 of the said Act in respect 

of cases decided under the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 
(44 of 1950 ). 


[No . 5 ( 6 ) / AGZ / 86 . ] 


H . K . TANDON , 
Chief Settlement Commissioner 


Suc.9(11)] 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Indus: rial Developmen ) 

(lodian Standards Institutional) 

New Delhi, the 23rd November 1967 
S . O . 4559 - The Certification Marks licences, details ofwhich are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, have lapsed or their renewal deferred : 

THE SCHEDULE 


Licensee s Name and Address 


Serial 
No. 


Licence No . 

und Date 


Remarks 


Article; Process and the Rectant S . O . Number and Date of 
IS : No. 

the Gazette Norifying 

Grant of Licence 


(1) 


( 3 ) 


(5 ) 


(6 ) 


I CM L - 461 

28 - 9 - 1962 


S . O . 1680 dated 

22 - 6 - 1963 


Deferred after 

IS - 10 - 1967 . 


Geo Industries & Insecticides ( India ) Pyt . BHC dusting powders - IS : 561- 

Ltd ., Field No. 82/ 3 (a ) Sathankadu , Kala - 1962 . 

dipet, Madras - 19. 
Ganges Flour Mills , 365 Hartisganj, G . T . Maida, grade high gluten - IS : 
Road , Kanpur . 

1009 - 1957. 
Hind Cycles Ltd ., 250 Worli, Bombay . Bicycle chains - IS :627 — 1961 


General 
Kamperen 
2 


2 CM / L -584 

24 - 9 - 1903 
3 CM L - 600 

20 - 11 - 1963 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER29,1967/PAUSA2.1889 


S . O . 2959 dated 

19 - 10 - 1963 
S . O . 3539 dated 
21- 12 - 1963 


Deferred after 

15 - 10 - 1967 . 
The licence was de 
ferred after 15 - 12 -66 . 
It should not be 
treated as lapsed after 
that date . 
Lapsed after 
15 - 10 - 1967 


4 CM / L - 786 

21 - 9 - 1964 


S. O . 3762 dated 
31- 10 - 1964 


$ CM /L - 787 

24 -9 - 1964 


Osyal Engg . & GeneralWorks, 49 Industrial Fractional horse power electric 
Area , Faridabad . 

motors , 1 /4 H . P ., 1/ 3 HP and 
1/ 2 HP , single phase capacitor 

start - IS : 996 – 1959 
Nagpal Electric & Radio Co., 1947 - 48 Kucha Electric hot plates (open type) of 
Seth , Darba Kalan , Delhi. 

voltages not exceeding 250 
volts ( 1 000 watts only ) - IS : 

36 - 1952 . 
Metha Chemicals No. 58 Mount Rod, Guin - Sulphuric acid - IS : 266 — 1961 

dy, Madras - IS 


S . O . 3762 dated 

31 - 10 - 1964 


Lapsed aflet 
15 - 10- 1967. 


6 


CM / L - 790 
30 - 9 - 1964 


S . 0 . 3752 dated 
31- 10 - 1964 


The licence was de 
ferred after 31- 3 - 1967. 
It should now 
be treated as lapsed 
after that date .. . 


484805 


1 


8.6 


7 CM /L - 795 

30 - 9 - 1944 
CM /L - 796 
30 - 9 - 1964 


Prakash Engg . Co. & RollingMills , Freeganj, Structural steel (standard quality ) ) 
Agia City . 

IS : 226 - - 1962 
Prakash Engg. Co & Rolling Mlills, Freeganj, Structural steel ( ordinary quality ) ) 
Agra City . 

- IS : 1977 - 1962 


S . O . 3762 dated 

31- IC - 1964 


00 


These licences were 
deferred 

after 
30- 9 - 1967. These 
shcold now be trea 
ted as lapsed after 
that date. 
Deferred after 
31 - 1C - 1967. 


9 CM /L -801 

20 - 10 - 1964 


S . O . 4038 dated 

28 - 11 - 1954 


10 CM / L - 1148 

27 - 9 - 1965 


Satellite Engs, Ltd ., P . O . Mfaize Products : Starter , for flourescent lamps, 
Kathwada , Ahmedabad - 2. 

20140 / 80 watts rat:06 - IS : 

2215 — 1963 
Ajax Electricals , 18 D . L . F . Industrial Area, Small AC electric motors with 
Najafgarh Road , New Delhi- 15 

class A insulation , single 
phase capacitor start -- IS : 956 

1959 
The Premier Lighting Industries Pvt. Ltd ., Ballasts for fluorescent lamps 
Dr. A . Nair Road , Bombay - II . 

for switch start circuits ) - - IS : 
1534 ( Part - 1) - 1960 . 


S .O . 3324 dated 
23 - 10 - 1965 


Deferred after 
15 - 10 - 1967 , 


Il CMYL - 1172 

6 - 12 - 1965 


S .O . 410 dated 

5 - 2 - 1966 


The licence vas de 
ferred after 30 - 6 - 1967. 

It should now be 
treated as lapsed after 

that date . 
Lapsed after 

15 - 10 - 1967 . 
Lapsed after 
30 - 9 - 1967 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


12 CM /L - 1315 

22 - 8 - 1966 
13 CM /L - 1343 

30 - 9 - 1966 


Standard Products Mfg. Co., Standard Ink , drawing, waterproof, black 
House, Old Kurla, Bombay -70 . 

IS : 789 – 1955 
Central Insecticides & Fertilizers , Vihar Lake Malathion emulsifiable cuncen 
Road , Sakinaka , Kurla , Bombay -70 

trates - IS : 2567 - 1963 


S .O . 2925 dated 

I- 10 - 1966 
S . O . 3299 dated 

5 - 11- 1966 


[ No. MD /33:16/ C.] 


[PARTII 


New Delhi, the 24th November 1967 
S . O . 4560 In continuation of the notification published under S . O . IC15 datel 25 March 1965 in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub 
section ( 1 ) da ted 3 April 1965, the Indian Stindards Institution hereby ntifies the additional des ans of the Standard Mark for steel drums 
( galvanized and ungalvanizel) which , together with their verbal description and the title of the Indian Standard , are given in the following schedule . 

These designs of the SiandardMark , for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regula 
tions framed thereunder , shall come into force with effect from 30th October 1967: 


SEC,(ii)] 


THE SCHEDULE 


+ 


Product/Class of Product 


Serial 
No . 


Design of the 
Standard Mark 


No. ani Title of the Relevant 

indian Standard 


Verbal Description of the design of the 

Standard Mark 


The 


SEAT 


ve 


V 


. 247 


w 


ho 


Steel drums ( galvanized 

and ungalvanized ) 


IS : 2552 - - 1963 Specification for 
steel drums ( galvanized and 
ungalyanized ) 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 
Institution consisting of letters ISI , 
drawn in the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in col. (2 ), the 
number designation of the Indian Standard 
being inscribed on the top side and relevant 
grade designation being subscribed under 
the bottom side of the monogram as 
indicated in the designs. 


DRUM ONLY 


IS : 2552 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


MM 


BI 
DRUM ONLY 

{S : 2552 


. 


C 


DRUM ONLY 


(No. MD / 17 : 2 .] 


4807 


4808 


30 . 4561, - In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Iestitution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution 
here be notifies that amendments to the Indian Standards given in the schedule bereto annexed have been issued under the powers conferred by the sube 
regulation (1 ) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Brief particulars of the Amendment 


Serial No , and title of the Indian Standard 

- mmended 


No. 


No, and Date of No. and Date of 
Gazette Notif - the Amendment 
cation in which 
the establishment 
of the Indian Stan 
dard was notified 


Date from which the 
amendment sball 
have effect 


(5 ) 


I IS : 561 - 1962 Specification for BHC 

dusting powders (second revision ) 


S . 0 . 3593 dated 
I December 1962 


No. 3 
September 1967 


( ) Clauses A -41 A - 4 . 2 A - 5 . 1( a ) and 

A - 5 . 1 . 1 have been amended . 
( 11) Clause A - 5 . 1 (b ) has been substituted 

by a new one 
( ii ) Page 7 Table III SL No. ( iii) Delete 

the item and the entries from the res 
pective columns against it . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER29,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


30 September 1967 


2 


No. 2 
September 1967 


Clauses B - 3. 3 B - 4. 3 and C - 3 -2 have been 

amended , 


IS : 562 – 1962 Specification for BHC S . O . 3593 dated 

water dispersible powder concentrates 1 December 1962 

( second revision ) 
IS : 564 - 1961 Specification for DDT S . O . 1919 dated 
dusting powders ( revised ) 

23 June 1962 


3 


No. 3 
September 1967 


(1) Clauses A -41, A -42, A -5 . 1(a ), A - 5. 1. 1 ) 

and D - 2 . 2 have been amended 
( + ) Clause A - 5 . 1 (b ) has been substituted by 
a new one . 

30th September 1967 
(tt) Page 6 Table III Si, No. (11 ) - Delete 

the item and the entries in the respec 

tive columns against it. 
Page 4 , Table I, col ( 3 ) against SI No. (i) - 

Substitute 5 for + 4 
Page 13 third column under column head - 15 November 1967 

ing Major Diameter - Substitute Coarse 
od for marse 8d 


4 IS : 565 – 1961 Specification for DDT. S . O . 2242 dated 

water dispersible powder concentrates 21 July 1962 

( revised ) 
IS : 1362 – 1962 Dimensions for screy S . O . 1147 dated 

threads for general purposes (dis - 20 April 1963 
Ipeter range 1 - 4 to 3 . 9 mm ) (revised ) 


No. 3 
September 1967 
Erratum 


S 


[PartII 


Sec,8(ii)] 


6 IS : 1505 - 1959 Specification for BHC S . O . 1572 dated No.2 

Clause 6 .1 has been substituted by a new one ) 
smoke generators 25 June 1960 September 1967 

30th September 1967 
7 IS : 2129 - 1962 Specification for para - S . O . 3831 dated No . 4 

Clause3 3. 2.5 and E - 3 3 have been amended 
thion emulsifiable concentrates 29 December 1962 September 1967 
S IS : 2265 - 1963 Specification för galva- S . O , 1147 date: NO. I 

1) Clauses o 4 and 6 . 5 have been ameud - 31st August 1967. 
nized steel wire strand for signalling 29 April 1963 August 1967 

es 
purposes 

( ii ) Clause 3. I has been substituted hy a 

new one. 
NOTE : -- This amendment was wrongly 
issued as Amendment No . 3 which remains 
cancelled now . Errata No. 1 and 2 hare 

also been included in in this amendment, 
9 IS : 2659 / 1964 Specification for ena - S . O . 1152 date : No . 2 

(il Clause 4 . 1. 1 has been deleted 
melled round copper wire for elevated 10 April 1965 August 1967 (19) Table VIhes been substituted by a new $ 31 August 1967. 
temperatures 

one . 
10 IS : 2864 – 1964 Specification for chlor- S . O . 618 dated 

{f} Clauses C - 2 . 1, E -41, E - 4.2 , E - 5. 1 (a ) } 30 September 1967 
dane dusting powders 20 February 1965 September 1967 aod E - 5 , 1, 1 have been amended 

(in) ClauseE - 5 . 1 (b ) has been substituted by 

a new one . 
(111) Page 14 , Table 3 , Sl. No. ( iii) Delete 

the item and the entries from the res 

pective columns against it. 
II IS : 2865 - 1964 Specification for me S , O . 895 dated No. 1 

Clause 2 .2 . 5 has been amended 
thyl parathion emulsifiable concen 20 March 1965 September 1967 

trates . 
12 IS : 3043 – 1966 Code of practice for S . O . 4023 dated No , I 

( 1) Clauses 9 .2 . 2 , 12 . 3 . 2 , 12 . 4 .2 12 . 7 .2 , 30 September 1967 
earthing. 31December 1966 September 1967 

1.4. 3 . 1 , 15 . 1. 1, 17 . 3 . 2 . 3 , 17 . 3 . 2 . 4 and 

17 . 3 . 2 . 5 have been amended 
(12) Clauses 1- 7 , 9 . 1 .2 and 9 .2 . 4 have been 

substituted by new ones . 
13 IS : 3832 - - 1966 Specification for hand- S . O . 1933 dated No, I 

Clause 3. 7. 1 has been substituted by a new 31 October 1967, 
operated chain pulley blocks. 

29 April , 967 October 1967 one. 
Copies of these amendment slips are available, free of cost, with the Indian Standaris Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg , 
New Delhi- 1 and also its branches at (i ) Bombay Mutual Terrace , Saclhurst Bridge , Bombay - 7 ( u ) Third and Fourth Floors , 5 Chowringhee Approach 
Calcutta - 13 ( 11 ) Second Floor, SathyamurthiBbavao , 54 General Patters Road , Madrasily ) 117 418 - B Sarvodaya Nagar Kanpur. 

[No. MD / 13 :5 . 1 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER28,1987/PAUSA2,1889 


4809 


4810 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 25, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART 1 


$ . 0 . 4562. In pursuance of sub - regulationg ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standard 
Institution (Certification Markk ) Regulutions, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifice that the Indian Standard ( s ), particulars of which are given in the Schedule bereto anne 
med have been cetablished during the period 1 to 14 November, 1967 : 

THB SCHIDULE 


Brief Particulars 


Sl. No. And Title of the Indian No, and Title of the Indian 
No. Standard Established Standard or Standards, if 

any , superseded by the 
new Indian Standard 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


I IS : 380 _ - 1967 Specification IS : 380 - 1952 Specification Th s standard prescrites the 

for French chalk , technical for French chalk , technical requirements and the methods 
( first revision ) 

of sampling and test for French 
chalk , technical used for 
various purposes (Price Rs. 6 . 00 ) 


2 


IS : 422 - 1967 Specification IS : 422 — 1959 Specifica - Th s standard covers the require 

for brass sheet and stription for brass sheet and ments for the following two 
for the manufacture of strip for the manufac grades of brass sheet and stri 
utensils ( first rouision ) ture of utensils 

suitable for the manufacture 
of household utensils and gent 
ral brasa hollow - ware : 
( a ) Gradc CuZn 40 ( A ) for mu 

chine pressing and 
(6 ) Grade CuZn40 ( B ) for hand 

worked article , (Prict 

Rs. 3 50 ). 
IS : 831 - 1966 Specification IS : 831 - 1957 Specification This standard covers the mate 

for badminton racket for badm .nton racket rial, dimensional and cons 
frames 

franes 

tructional requirements for 
( revised ) 

the badminton racket frames 
(Price Rs, 2 . 00 ). 


7 


4 


5 


6 


IS : 833 — 1967 Specification 

This standard prescribes the 
for r b -knitted gents 

constructional details and other 
Dylon stockings 

particulars of rib -kntted gents 
nylon stockings, blcached or 

dyed (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
IS : 1072 -- 1967 Specification 

This standard covers the rcquiro 
for leaf chains 

ments for Icaf chains and dimen 
sions for clevises and shcaves 

(Price Rs. 3 . 50 , 
IS : 1182 - - 1967 Recom - IS : 1182 - 1957 General This standard prescr.bes recom . 

mended practice for radio - recommendations for mendations for the radiogra 
graphic examination of rad . ograph . c examina phic exanıination of fusion 
fusion welded butt joints tion of fusion welded welded butt joints in stcel 
in steel plates ( first rovision ) joints 

The recommendations are 
based primarily on radiogra 
phic techniques which have 
been used successfully in in 
dustry for examination of wal 

dded joints (Price Rs. 6 . 50 ) . 
IS : 1576 — 1967 Specifica 

This standard prescribes the re 
tion for solid pressboard 

quirements and methods of 
for electrical purposes 

Bampling and test for solid 
press boards , dyed or of 
natural colour, having a calcp 
dered finish and supplied in an 
unimpregnated condition 
( Price Rs. 9 . 00 ) . 


7 


VAL 


- 


(2) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


H 


8 IS : 1660 - 1967 Specifica - IS : 1960 - 1960 Specifica - This standard prescribes general 

tion for wrought ahimi- tion for wrought aluminium requirements, quality of ma 
nium utensils ( first tellision ) utcnsilo 

terial and thickness for some 
of the more commonly used 
wrought aluminium vtenais 

ofthree classes (Pr ce Rs. 6 . 00 ) 
9 IS : 2186 - 1967 Dimensions 

This standard covers the dimen 
riy g on for external 

sions for external interference 
interference fit threads 

fit hreads in the diametçi 
range i to 150 mm , Price 

Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
IO IS : 2232 - 1967 SpeciAca - IS : 2232 - 1962 Specifica - This standard prescribed the se 

tion for glotted and castle tion for slotted and quirements of precision and 
puto 

castle auts . 

black grades of slotted and 
castle nuts in the following 

diameter ranges : 
( a ) Precision grade 

sloited nuts 4 to 10 101 
(1 ) Black grade 

slotted nuts 12 to 33 


mu 


II JS : 2429 - 1967 Specifica 

tion for clectric burt wel 
ded steel chain , short link 
and pitched or calibrated , 
grade 30 , for lifting pur 
poscs ( first revision) 


12 IS : 2617 - - 1967 Specifica 

tion for millboard , grey - 
board and strawboard 

( first revision ) 
13 IS : 3994 - 1967 Code of 

practice for fire safety of 
industrial buildings : ge 
general storage and ware 
housing including cold 
storages 


(C ) Precision and 

black grades 12 to 100 
castle nuts 

mm 

(Price Rs. 5 . 50 ) 
IS : 2129 - 1963 Specifi - This standard covers the requira 

cation for electrically ments for electric resistance 
welded mild steel chain or flush butt welded steel 
short - link and pitched chains of the short lok and 
or calibrated for lifting pitched or calibrated types , 
purposes 

of grade 30 , used for liftia 
and haulage purposeb (Price 

Rs. 5 . 50 ) 
IS : 2617 - 1964 Specift- This standard prescribes the re 
cation for millboard quirements for millboard , grey 
greyboard and straw board and strawboard (Price 
board 

Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This Code covers the essential 
requirements of fire safety of 
all godowns , warehouses and 
outdoor storage sites forming 
part of industrial complexes 
and those rented or owned by 
public and private warehouslog 
bodies or individuals (Price 

R . 4 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the require 
ments of hexagon fit bolts in 

the diameter range Io to IIS 
mm (Pnce Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
methods of sampling and cri 
teria for ascertaining the con 
formity of the alcoholic drinks 
to the relevant specificatione 

(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard covers recom 
mended current ratings for PVC 
insulated and PVC - sheathed 
heavy duty cables covered by 
IS : 1954 Part I) 1964 
cither laid direct in ducts or 
alr (Pr ce Rs. 8 . 00 ) 


14 


IS : 3642 – 1967 Specifica 

cation for hexagon fit 
bolts 


I 


IS : 3753 – 1967 Methods 

of sampling for alcoholic 
drinks 


I 


JS : 3961 (Part II) — 1967 

Recommended current 
ratings for cables 
Part II PVC - insulated 
and PVC - sheathed heavy 
duty cables 


4812 


. 


GAZE ” E C F INDIA : DECEMBER 23, 1969 /PAUSA 2, 1889 


[ Parý I 


(1) 


(4 ) 


- - - 


17 IS : 4002 - - 1967 General re 

quirements and tets for 
qudio frequency transfor 
miers and chokes used in 
transistorized equipment 


This standard lays down the 
general requirements and 
tests for audio frequency 
transformers (with two or more 
windings ) and chokes (with or 
without depolarization ), used 
in transistorized circuits em 
ployed in clectronic and tele 
communication equipment 

(Price Rs. 7 .00) 
This guide lays down practices 
for the application of non - linear 
resistor - type lightning Arres 
ters, for Ac systems which are 
covered by IS : 3070 (Part I) 
1965 (Price Rs. 6 : 50 ) 


18 


IS : 4004 — 1967 Applica 

tion guide for non - linear 
resistor type lightning ar 
Testers for alternating 
current systems 


19 


IS : 4010 - - 1967 Specifi 

cation for sounding pipes 


20 


IS : 4021 — 1967 Specifica 

tion for timber door , win 
dow and ventilator frames 


21 IS : 4036 – 1967 Specifica 

tion for trolleys, patient 


22 


IS : 4037 -- 1967 Specifica 

tion for stretchers and 
. stretcher curriers 


. 


This standard specifics thc rc 

quirements and dimensions for 
various sounding pipes on 

board ships (Prict Rs. 5 50 ) 
This standard lays down the re 

quirements regarding material , 
construction , workmanship and 
sizes of timber door , window 
and ventilator frames generally 
used in domestic buildings , 
offices , schools and hospitals 

(I rice Rs. 5 : 50 ) 
This standard specifies the re 
quirements for fixed -top patients, 

trolleys used in hospitals and 
at other similar ingtitutions 

(Price Rs . 2 . 00 ) 
This standard specifies the cuscn 

tial dimensions and other re 
quirements for stretchers and 
stretcher carriers to ensure 
guitability and usability in diffe 
rent forins of transport thus 
eliminating the need to transfer 
patients from one stretcher to 

another ( Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard covers fixing of 

cement concrete facing which 
may be in the form of precast 
concrete facing blocks or slab 

units (Price Rs. 6 . 00 ) 
This standard prcscribes cons 
tructional details and other parti 
culars of bunting cloth , cotton 

khadi, dyed ( Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 

constructional details and other 
particulars of blankcling cloth , 

woul khadi ( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This gluggary covers definition 
of terms commonly used in the 
field of vacuum technology 
(Price Rs. 12 . 00 ) 


23 


IS : 4101 (Part ID - - 1967 

Code of practice for exter 
nal facings and veneers Part 
II cement concrete facing 


24 


IS : 4106 - - 1967 Specifica 

tion for Cunting cloth , 
cotton khadi, dyed 


25 IS : 4107 - - 1967 Specifica 

tion for blanketing cloth 
wool khadi 


26 IS : 4110 -- 1967 Glossary of 

terms used in high vacuum 
technology . 


Sec, 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 23 , 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4813 


( +) 


27 IS : 4114 — 1957 Coded mark 

ings of values of capaci 
tance unul resistacc by 
letters an . 1 digits 


28 


IS : 4116 — 1967 Specifica 

tion for wooden shelving 
cabinets in ljuytable type ) 


This stendard prescribes a code 

for marking of values and to 
lerances of capacitors and resis 
tors by means of letters and 

digits ( rice Rs . 2 . 50 ) 
This standard covers the require 
ments for materials, sizes , 
construction and finish of 
adjustable wooden shelving 
cabinrts with hinged decirs 
( Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 


29 


IS : 4119 — 1967 Soccifica 

tion for charcoal-burning 
pressing irons 


30 


IS : 4122 - 1967 Method of 

text for surface sofiening 
of natural building stones 
by exposure to acidic 
almospheres 


31 IS : 4146 — 1967 Application 

guide for voltage trung 
fomery 


This standard covers the require 
ments of washerman s 
(DHOBI s ), tailors and domcs 
tic charcoal-burning pressing 

jrons ( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This ylandard lays down the pro 

ccdurc for determining the ex 
tent of surface softening taking 
place in natural building stones 
when cxposed to acidic at 

mospheres (Price Rs, 2 - 00 ) 
This guide covers application of 
voltags transformers for use 
with both clcctrical measuring 
instruments and meters (mca 
suring voltage transtormer ) 
and clectrical protective devices 
including hroken wu114 voltuge 
transformer for the application 
of directional carth fault pro 
tecciun (protective voltage tralis 
furmers ) . Reference has 
Also been made to the use of 
voltage transformer for the 
Jual purpose of measurement 

and protection (Price Rs. 4 .00 ) 
This standard prescribes thc rc 
quireinents and methods of 
sampling and test for surgical 
rulher gloves of sizes 6 , 63, 7 

77 and 8 (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This specification deals with 

light-weight seamless carhon 
dioxide cylinders of capacity 
45 and 67 litres intended for 
fit : fighting purposes on board 
ships 
This standard also lays down the 

requirements of the matcriat 
to lic used in the manufacture 
of these cylinders, inspection , 
marking and testing (Price 

Rs. 9 . 00 ) 
This standard lays down the 

procedure to be followed in 
collecting and preparing sam 
ples from a lot in oder to deter 
mine size distribution , moisture 
content and chemical composi 
tion of barytos in bulk (Price 
Rs. 5 . 30) 


32 IS : 4114 - 196 Specifica 

tion for surgical rubber 
gloves 


11 


33 IS : + 152 — 1967 Specifica 

tion for carbon dioxide 
cylinders for fire fighting 
purposes on boardship 


34 IS : 4156 – 1967 Methods 

for sampling of barytex 


4814 


TIJE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/ PAUSA 2. 1889 


[PART II - 


- - 


35 IS : 4169 - - 1967 Method 

for calibration of elastic 
proving device 


This standard prcscribes method 

for calibration of elastic proving 
device to be uged for static 
verification of testing machin : s 
(Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


30 


IS : 4174 -- 1967 Specifica 

tion for typewriter ribhong 


37 IS : 4176 — 1967 Method 

fur simple torsion test of 
aluminium and aluminium 
alloy wire 


38 


IS : 4185 - - 1967 Specifica 

tion for gumnied raper 
tapos 


39 IS : 4196 — 1967 Specifica 

lion for inuize seed fur pro 
pagation purposes 


40 


IS : 4197 — 1967 Specific - 

tion for rico geed for pro 
pagation purposes 


This standard prescribes the 

requirements and the methods 
of sampling and test for inked 
record ribbony made of cot on 
fabric , for use on typewriters 

of various types ( Price Rs . 2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
method for simple torsion test 
ing of aluminium und alumi 
nium alloy wire of nominal 
size 0 . 5 mm and above 

( Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the rc 

guirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for gummcd 

paper tapes ( Price Rs. 2 . 39 ) 
This standard prescribes the re 
quirement, and the methods of 
sampling and test for maize 
8¢¢d ( Zea mays Linn .) ( or pro 

pagation purposes . 
This standard shall apply to the 
seeds of both the open polli 
nated varieties and thic hybrids 

(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes th : re 

quirements and the methods of 
gampling and test for unhusked 
rice sced Oryza saltuu L . for 
propagation purposes ( Price 

Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard specifics rcquirc 
ments for chairs for draftsmen 
for u9 - with drafting tables 

( Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the re 
quirements and the methods of 
sampling and text for atencil 

brush (Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the re 

quirements and the methods of 
sampling and test for fresh 
chillies (Capsicum annum ) 

(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the ru 

quirements and the metliods o 
sampling and test for mandarin 
(Citrus reticulate Blanco .) alyo 
known 2 * 100se - skinn . d -or 

ganges . (Price Rs. 4 00 ) 
This standard covers require . 
ments for needle holder (Gillies . 
combined with scissors for plas 
tic surgery (Price Rs. 2 : 50 ) 


41 IS : 4201 — 1967 Specifica 

tion for dratting chairs 


42 


IS : 4208 — 1967 Specifica 

tion tor brush , stencil 


43 


IS : 1235 — 1967 Specifica 

tion for chillies, fresh 


44 


IS : 42 . 3 — 1967 Specifica 

tion lor mandarins 


45 


IS : 4245 -- 1967 Specifica 

lion for needle holder (Gil 
lies ) combined with scissors , 
for plastic surgery 


SEC. $ (ii)] 


THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/ PAUSA 2 , 1889 


4815 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


46 


IS : 4250 — 1967 Specifica 

tion for domestic electric 
food -mixers (liquidizers , 
blenders and grinders ) 


This standard applics to electric 
motor- driven food mixery ( liqui 
dizers , blenders and grinders ) 
mainly intended for 
domestic use and designed for 


operation at voltages not exceed 
ing 250 volts, Machines com 
bining all the functions, if 
necessary by replacement of 
attachments , are also covered 
(Price Rs. 5 . 50 ) 


47 


IS : 4252 — 1967 Specifica - 

tion for electroplated coat 
ingy of gold for decorative 
purposes 


This standard specifics four 

grades of electroplated coatings 
of gold applied to metallic 
surfaces for decorative purposes 
( Price Rs. 2 50 ) 


48 


IS : 4253 ( Part 1) - 1967 

Specification for cork 
composition shects 
Part I plain cork 


This standard specifics th : require 

menty and methods of test for 
cork composition in the form 
of single layer sheets used for 
gaskets in automotive appli 
cation (Price Rs. 4 :00 ) 


49 


IS : 4254 – 1967 Specifica 

tion for jaw crushers 


This standard ocver; thi jaw 

crushers which are commonly 
used for crushing rocky ( Prics 
Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


50 


IS : 4256 _ - 1967 Specifica 

tion for hydrated calcium 
sulphate from maine brine 


This stan lard prescribes the re 

quirements and the mcthods of 
sampling and test for hydrated 
calcium gulphate from marine 
brine ( Price Rr. 2 . 00 ) 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale, with the Indian Scaniaris Institution 
Manik Bhivan , 9 Bahn lur Shigh Zafar Mag , New Delhi- r and also its branch offices at (1) Bombay 
Mutual Terrace , Sandhurst Bridge, Bomhay- 7, ( it) Third and Fourth Floors , 5 Chowringhe 
Approach , Calcutta - 13, ( 111) Second Floor , Sathyamurthi Bhavan , 14 General Patters Road , Madras- 2 
and (iv ) 117 /418B , Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur. 

[No. MD / 13 : 2. ] 


New Delhi, the 5th December 1967 


3 . 0 . 4563 - In supression of the then Ministry of Cinnerce uni In lustry ( Indian Stiliard 
Institution ) Notification No . S . O . 1033 dated 27 March 1963 published in the Gazette of 
In lia , Part II, Sac:107 3 , Su s-soction (fi), dated 13 April 1953, the In lian Standards Inytitution 
hereby notifier , that the Standard Mirky foc lain lry spa have hen revised. Th : revised 
designs of th , Stanlır. Mirka torther with t : title th : relevil Izin Statud and verbal 
description of the designs are given in the Schedule hereto annexed . 


4816 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29 , 1907/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II 


Thoye Standard Marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks ) Act , 1952 , and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder , shall come into force with 
effect from 1 December 1967 : 

THE SCHEDULE 


si Design of Product/ Class 
No. the Standard of Product 

Mark 


design 


No. and Title of the 
Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Verbal description of the 

of the Standard Mark 


( 1) 


(3 ) 


1 . IS : 285 


Lauady Soaps 


IS : 285 – 1964 Speci- 

fication fur laundry 
soaps (revised ). 


Thc monogram ot the Indian 

Standards Institution , congist 
ing of letters ISI , drawn in 
the cxact style and relative pro 
portions as indicated in col. ( 2 ), 
the number designation of the 
Indian Standard being super 
scribed on the top side and 
the relevant type and grade 
designations being subscribed 
under the bottom side of the 
monogram as indicated in the 
designs. 


TYPE 1 - GRADE I 

2 . IS . 285 


TYPE 1 -- GRADE 2 

3. I$ : 285 


GOGGGG 


TYPE 2 - GRADE I 

4 . I $ : 285 


11 


TYPE 2 - GRADE 2 

5 . IS : 285 


TYPE 3 - GKADE I 

6 . IS : 285 


TYPE 3 - GRADE 2 


[No. MD / 17 :2 .) 


SEC, 3 (11)] "THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1967 / PAUSA 2, 1889 


4817 


= 


S . O . 4564. - In partial modification of the then Ministry of Commerce and Industry ( Indian 
Standards Institution ) Notification No. S . O , 879 dated 31st March 1960 , puhlised in the Gazelto 
of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - gection (ii), dated 9th April 1960 the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Standards Marky for rolled brass plate shcet , strip and foil have been 
revised . The revised design of the Standard Mark together with the title of the relcvant Indian 
Standard and verbal description of the design iy given in the Schedulc hereto annexed , 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Act , 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder, shall come into force with 
effect from 23 November 1967 : 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. 
No, 


Design of 
the Standard 
Mark 


Product/ Class 
of Product 


Now , and Title of the 
Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Verbal description of the design 

of the Standard Mark 


(1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


IS : 410 


Rolled brass IS : 410 — 1967 Spe - 
plate slicct, cification for rolled 
strip and foil . brass plate sheet, 

gtrip and foil ( second 
revision ) 


The monogram of the Indian 
Standards Institution , consist 
ing of letters " ISI , drawn in the 
exact style and relative propor 
tions as indicated in col. ( 2 ) , the 
number designation of the Indian 
Standard being superscribed on 
the top side of the monogram 
as indicated in the design . 


[No. MD / 17 :2. ] 


New Delhi, the 11th December 1967 
S . O . 4565 . — In partial modification of the Notification Number S . O . 3674 , cated 
22nd September, 1967, published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 ( il) , 
dated 14th October , 1967, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that , 
with a view to facilitate gradual change over by the Certification Marks Licensees , 
IS : 1977 - 1962 Indian Standard Specification for structual steel (ordinary quality ) , 
referred to at Serial No. 2 of the Schedule , shall remain in force up to 31st March , 
1968 , both with and without Amendment No . 1 of August, 1967. After 31st March , 
1968 , IS : 1977 - 1962 with Amendment No . 1 only will be in force . 

(No. MD / 13 : 5 . 1 


S . O . 4560. - - The article covered in Licence No. CM / L - 1407 held by M / s . Power 
Cables Pvt. Ltd . of Vithalwadi, Near Kalyan ( C . Rly .), the details of which are 
given in the Notification published under SO . 1531 in the Gazette of India , Part II, 
Section 301) dated 29th April, 1967 has been revised as under with effect from 
16th October , 1967 : 
Polythene Insulated and PVC Sheathed Cables, Single Core and Twin Flat, 

with Aluminium Conductors ; 
Brand : - INSULAST 

[No. MD / BO : 11- A . ) 


d , Bhandup Bem in the Gazette of indeffect from 


ş . 0 . 4567. - The articles covered in licence No . CM / L - 1431 held by M / s Bombay 
Cable Co . Pvt. Ltd ., Agra Road , Bhandup , Bombay - 78 , details of which are 
given in the Notification published under S . O . 2769 in the Gazette of India , Part II , 
Section 3 ( 11) dated 12th August , 1967 have been revised as under with effect froin 
16th November , 1967 ; 
Rubber Insulated Cables of the following types : 

(i) VIR Single Core , 250 / 440 Volts Grade with Aluminium Conductor . 
(ii ) VIR Weatherproof, 250 / 440 Volts Grade with Aluminium Conductor. 
( iii ) VIR Weatherproof, 650 / 1 100 Volts Grade with Aluminium Conductor. 
(lv ) VIR Bralded and Compounded , 650 / 1 100 Volts Grade with Aluminium 

Conductor, 


4818 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 29, 1967/ PAUSA 2, 1889 


[PART II -- 


(V ) VIR Tough Rubber Sheathed , 250 / 440 Volts Grade with Aluminlum 

Conductor. 
(v1) VIR Tough Rubber Sheathed , 650 / 1 100 Volts Grade with Aluminium 
Conductor. 

[No. MD / BO : 11- A ) 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1967 
S . O . - 4568 . In parsuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indigo Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as sulise 
quently anended , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that twenty one licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule 
here t ) annexes , have been granted authorizing the licensees to use the Standard Mark . 


Sec.$(ii)] 


THE SCHEDULE 


Si. 
Fo . 


Relevant Indian Standard 


Licence No. Period of Validity 
and Date From 


To 


Name and Address of the 

Licensee 


Article ! Process Covered by 

the Licence 


( 5 ) 


16 - 11 - 67 


15 - 11- 68 


CML- 1556 
7 - 11- 1967 


M /s . Sehgal Sanitary Fittings Sand - cast brass screw - down bib IS : 751- - 1959 Specification for 
(Pvt. ) Ltd . , Village Chuharwali, taps 1 < mm size and stop taps sand - cast brass screw down bib 
P . O . Adampur, Jullundur . IS mm size for Water services . taps and stop taps for water ver 

vices. 


CM /L - 1557 
S - II - 1967 


16 - 11 -67 


2. 


MAIL 131 


16:31-67 * 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER29,1967/P4USA21889 


3 . 


8 - 11 -67 


7 


CM {L - 1558 
8 - II - 1967 


15 - 11 -63 Ms. Bhutoria Engg . Works Ltd ., Sluice valves for water works IS : 780E - 1966 Specification for 

17, G . T . Road , Baramandir, purposess , class I up to 65 sluice valves for water works 
Konnagar, Hooghlly having mm size . 

purposes (Second revision ) . 
their regd . office at Bhutoria 
House , 8 , Lindsay Street, Cal 

cutta - 16 . 
- 11-68 Ms. Universal Cables Ltd ., Satna Hard - drawn stranded alumini - IS : 398 — 1961 Specification for 
( M . P . ), 

um and steel cored aluminiur hard - drawn stranded aiuminium 
conductors for overhead po - and steel cored aluminium con 
wer transmission purposes . ductors for overhead power 

transmission purposes . 
15 - 11 - 68 The Fertilizers & Chemicals Ammonium chloride, pure IS : 1113 – 1965 Specification for 

Travancore Ltd ., P . O . Udyog - grade, type I ( for batteries ammonium chloride, technical 
mandal, Alwave (Kerala . 

and dry cells ). 

and pure (retised . 
30 -11- 68 M / s. Metro Soap Works, H . Sid - Laundry soap , type 1, grade 2 . IS : 285 – 1964 Specification or 
daiah Road , Bangalore - 2 . 

laundry soap ( Felised ) . 


4 . 


16 - 11-67 


CML- 1559 
14 - II - 1967 


CM {L - 1960 
14- 11- 1967 


I - 12 -67 


16 - 11 -67 


1 5 - II- 68 


CM / L - IS6I 
11 - 11 - 1967 


M /s . Metropole Industries , 

Pradhankbunta , Distt . Dhan 
bad , Bihar, 


Endrin emulsifiable concentrates . IS : 1310 – 1958 Specification for 

Endrin emulsifiahle concentrates . 


4819 


4820 


1 


2 


3 


4 


- 


1 


- 


16 - 11 -67 


Tea - chestmetal fittings. 


7 . CM / L - 1662 

14- 11- 1967 


15 - 11 -68 M /s . Zeedoneil Industries ( India ) 

Pvt. Ltd . , I5 Dum Dum Road , 
Calcutta - 30 having their office 
at 20 Strand Road, Calcutta - I , 


IS : 10 — 1964 Specification for 
plywood tea -chests ( second re 
Zision ). 


16 - 11 -67 


15 - 51- 68 


8 . CM / L - 1563 

14- 11- 1967 


M / s Rajasthan " Cable Industries 
Pvt. Ltd ., Heavy Industrial Area , 
Kota -3 (Rajasthan ). 


PVC insulated cables with 
aluminium conductors 2501 
40 and 650 / 1100 volts grade 
" single core unsheathed and 
PVC sheathed . 


IS : 69.4 (Part II) — 1964 Specifi 
cation for PVC insulated cables 
for voltages up to 1100 volts 
(ret ised ) 


a conte 


nt 


9 . CM / L - 1561 

14 - 11 - 1967 


1 - 12 -67 


30- 11 -68 


Tea - chest metal fittings , 


M /s . Harlalka M . C . & Co ., Indus - 

trial Estate, Gauhati having 
their office at Industrial Estate , 
Bamuni Maidan , Gauhati. 


IS : 10 — 1964 Specification for 

plywood tea - chests (second C 
dis107 ). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER29,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


16 - 11-67 


IO . CM / L - 1565 

14 - 11- 1967 


Tca - chestmetal fittings, 


15 - 11-68 M /s . National Trading Corpo .. 

Debendra Mullick Street, Cal 
cutta - 12 having their office at 
23 Strand Road , (2nd Floor) , 
Calcutta - I. 


IS : 10 % - 1964 Specification for 
plywood tea - chests (second re 
Eston ). 


II. CML- Is66 

24 - 11 - 67 


I - I2- 67 


30 - 11 - 68 


M /s . Keen Pesticides Pyt .) Ltd . , BHC water dispersible powder IS :562 – 1962 . Specification for 
Industrial Estate , Musical concentrates . 

BHC water dispersible powder 
P . O ., (Via ) Perurbanoor, Kerala 

concentrates. 
having their office at Tower 
House , M . G . Road , Ernakulam 
Kerala ) . 


I - 12 - 67 


30 - 11- 68 


12. CM / L - 1567 

24 - 11 - 1967 


M / s. Keen Pesticides (Pvt.) Ltd , In - DDT vater dispersible powder IS : 565 – 1961 Specification for 
dustrial Estate , Musical P . O . , concentrates . 

DDT water dispersible powder 
( Via ) Perumbanoor, Kerala 

concentrates. 
having their office at Tover 
House , M . G . Road , Ernakulam 
(Kerala ) , 


[PART1l-- 


1 - 12 -67 


30 - 11- 68 


13 . CM / L - 1568 

24 - II - 1967 


M / s. Prakash Insecticides Pvt. Ltd ., BHC dusting powders . 

P . O . Naini, Distt Allahabad . 


IS : 561 - 1962 Specification for 

BHC dusting powders (second 
redit ). 


1 


- 12 - 67 


- 


14 CM / L - 1569 

24 - 11 - 1967 


- 


Sec,(ii)] 


- 


15 CM / L - 1570 

24- 11 - 1967 


1 - 12 -67 


16 CM L - 1571 

23- 11 - 1967 


1- 9 -67 


I- 12 - 67 


17 CM / L - 1572 

27 - 11- 1967 


30 -11- 68 M /s. Keen Pesticides ( Pvt.) Ltd ., Malathion emulsifiable concen - [ S : 2567 - 1963 Specification for 
Industrial Estate , Mudical P . O . trates . 

malathion emulsifiahle concen 
(Via ) Perumbanoor, Kerala 

trates . 
having their office at Tower 
House , M .G . Road , Ernakulam 

(Kerala ). 
30 - 11 -68 M /s. Engg. Cottage Industries , 7177 Steel toe caps for miners safety IS : 1989 - 1967 Specification for 
Tilak Nagar , Kanpur . 

leather boots and shoes , 

miners safety leather boots and 

shoes first revision ). 
31-8 -68 M /s. Cachar Plywood Ltd ., Goom - Tea- chest plywood panels . IS : 10 -1964 Specification for ply 
bira Tea Estate , P . O . Olivia 

Wood tea - chests ( second terision ). 
cherra , Distt . Cachar, Assam . 
30 - 11 -68 MI s . Arail Brothers , 1414 Milestone, Plastic water closets seats and IS : 2548E - 1966 Specification for 
Mathura Road , Faridabad having covers , type A . 

plastic water- closets seats and 
their office at Chakri Bazar , 

Oveis Tertised . 
Delhi- 6 . 
30 - 11 -68 M /s . National Wood Products , Tea - chest plywood panels . IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for plywood 
1919 Harish Neogi Road , 

tea - chests second fer l520121. 
Calcutta - 4 . 
30 - 11 -68 M /s. P . Kothary & Co. 76 /2 / 2 Tea - chest metal fittings. 

IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for ply 
Maharishi Debendra Road , 

voos tea - chests second revision ). 
Calcutta - 6 having their office at 

J6 Nalini Sett. Road , Calcutta - 7 . 
15 - 12 -68 M /s. J. L . Banerjee & Sons, 47 - B , Tea -chest metal fittings. IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for ply 
Joy Mitro Street, Calcutta - 5. 

Food tea -chests (second retiision ). 
30 - 11 - 68 Mjs . Sudershan Timber Trading Co., Plywood tea - chest batters . 
30 - 11- 68 M 

IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for ply 
Saharanpur Road , P . O . Yamu 

wood tea - chests (second recision .) 
nanagar, Distt. Ambala . 


18 


CM /L - 1573 
27- 11- 1967 


I- 12 - 67 


19 CM / L - 1574 

27 - 11 - 1967 


I- 12 -67 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSA2.1889 


16 - 12 -67 


20 CM /L - 1575 

27 - 11 - 1967 
21 CM /L - 1576 

27 - 11 - 1967 


1 - 12 -67 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(No. MD /33 : 16 .] 


4821 


S . O . 4569Io pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ), Regulations, 1955, as subsequen 
amended , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that seventynine licences , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have be 
телеwеd . 

THE SCHEDULE 


1822 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


of Validity 


Relevant Indian Standard 


to the be 


- 


Sl. 
No. 
(1) 


Licence No . Period 
and date 

From 
(2) 


kelione Artikelen enged by a 


periode or vesty Nomi ant baltos 


Name and Address of the Licensee Article /Process covered by the 

licence 

(0 ) 


From 


To 


To 


I CM { L - 34 

4 - II - 1957 


16 - 11-67 


15 -11 -68 


16 - 11-67 


15 - 11- 68 


2 CM / L - 36 

- II - 1957 


THEGAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA: 
DECEMBER 
29, 
1967/ 
PAUSA2, 
1889 


3 


CM / L -37 
- JI- 1957 


16 - 11 -67 


The National Insulated Cable Hard - drawn copper solid and IS : 282- 1963 Spacification for 
Co . of India Ltd ., Shamnagar stranded anductors 

hard - drawn wpper conductors 
( 24 Parganas , West Bengal) 

for overhead power transmission 
having their Regd . Offæ at 

(Terised ). 
Nicco House , Hare Street, 

Calcutta - i. 
The National Insulated Cable Co. Hard -drawn stranded aluminium IS : 398- 1961 Specification for 

of India Ltd . , Shamnagar ( 24 and steel- cored aluminium con - hard -drawn stranded aluminium 
Parganas, West Bengal) having ductors for Overhead power and stcel- cored alumin um 
their Regd . Office at Nicco House , transmission purposes . 

onductors for overhead portet 
Hare Street, Calcutta - 1, 

transmission purposes (retised). 
The National Insulated Cable Co . Rubber - insulated cables and (1) IS : 434 (Part 1 )- 1964 
of India Ltd ., Shamnagar (24 flexible cords of all types and 

Specification for rubber 
Parganas , West Bengal) having sizes specified in IS : 134 

insulated ables with 
their Regd . Office at Nico (Part 1)- 1964 and IS : 134 

30pper 

conductors 
Hlouse , Hare Street , Calcutta - I . (Part ID - 1961 

( revised ). 
(# ) IS : 434 (Part II ) 

1964 Specification for 
rubber - insulated cables 
with aluminium con 

dutors (revised ). 
The National Insulated Cable Co. Cotton -covered round copper IS : 450 - 1954 Specification for 
of India Ltd ., Shamnagar ( 24 conductors . 

cotton -covered round upper 
Parganas , West Bengal) having 

conductors (reeriset). 
their Regd . Office at Niaco 

House , Hare Street , Calcutta - I . 
M s Rashtriya Metal Industries Wrought aluminium and alu - IS : 21- 1959 Specification for 
Ltd ., Kurla Road , Andheri (East), minium alloy utensils . 

wrought aluminium and 
Bombay -41. 

aluminjum alloys for utensils 
(second revision ). 


15 - 11 -68 


4 CM { L -38 

4 - 11- 1957 


16 -11-67 


15 - 11- 68 


16 - Y 


16 -11-67 


IS - II - 68 


[ 
ParrII 


4 - 11- 1957 


6 


CM /L - 40 
- 11 -1957 


16 - 11 -67 


15 - 11 -68 


SEC,3(11)] 


7 CM / L - 66 

7 - 2 - 1958 


1- 12 - 67 


30 - 11 - 68 


8 CML - 104 

7 - 10 - 1958 


1 - 11 -67 


31- 10 -68 


M /s Rashtriya Mctal Industrics Wrought alunitium ud alu - IS : 21- 1959 Specification for 
Ltd . ,Kurla Road , Andheri ( East ), minjum alloy slitets , strips wrought aluminium and alu 
Bombay - 41 . and circles. 

minium alloys for utensils 

( second farrsion ). 
M s Saryashi Foodcrafts (Assam ), Tea - chicst plywood panels. IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 
Prop . Jayshree Tea & Industries 

plywood tea -chests (second 
Ltd ., P . O . Mariani, District 

Tecision ) . 
Sibsagar 
M s E . I. D . Party Limitad , Nilli- Rectified spirit, grade J . 

IS : 323- 1959 Specification for 
kuppam , South Arcot Distt . 

rectified spirit (retised ). 
Madras. 
Mis Sylvan Plywood Mills , Tea -chest plywood panels . IS : 10 - 1964 : Specification for 
Kottayam Kerala ). 

plyrood tea - chests (second 

Derson ) . 
The Assam Veneer & Saw Mills Tea - chests plywood panels , 

IS ; 10 - 1064 Specificaton for 
Limited , 3 Clive Row , Calcutta - I . 

plywood tea - chests ( seconut 

retrision ). 
M s Flintrock Products Pvt . Ltd ., BHC Juscing powders . 

IS : 561- 1962 Specification for 
Belvedere Road , Mazagaon , 

EHC dusting powders 
Bombay - Io . 

( second revision ). 
The Packing Materials Corpora - Water - proofing packing popu . IS : 1398 - 1960 Specification for 
tion , Khed Gally, Off Gokhale 

packing paper, waterproof bit 
Road ( South ), Bombay- 28. 

umen laminated . 


9 CM /L - 105 15 - 11 -67 

31- 10 - 1958 
IO CM L - 10716 - 11 -67 

4 - 11 - 1958 


15 - 11 -65 


15 - 11- 68 


Il CM / L - 148 

28 - 9 - 1959 


I - 12 -67 


30- 11-68 


12 CM / L - 1501 - 11-67 

15 - 10 - 1959 


31- 10 - 68 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER25,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


13 CAL- 225 

16 - 9 - 1960 


[ - 12-67 


30 - 11-68 


30 - II - 68 


M s Veneer Mills Private Ltd ., Tea - chust plywood panels . 

Tinsukia , Assam . 
Mis Hindustan Tin Works Pvt. Ltd . 18 - litre square tins, 
Ghaziabad ( U . P .) . 
M s National Plywood Industries , Tea - chest plywood panels . 
6 Gorapada Sarkar Lane , Calcutta - 4 . 
Mis Bharat Wood Works Private Tea - chest plywood panels . 

Ltd . , P . O . Dibrugarh , Assam . 


14 CM /L -2431 - 12 -67 

23 - 11 - 1960 
15 CM /L - 302 I-12 -67 

25 -5 - 1961 
16 CM : L -351 16 -11-67 

31- 10- 1961 


30 - II - 68 


15- 11-68 


IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 

plywood tea -chests (second 

revision ) , 
IS : 916 - 1966 Specification for 

18 - litre square tins (retised . 
IS ; 10 - 1964 Specification for 

plywood tea -chests (second 

revision ) . 
IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 

plywood tea- chests (secut re 

tisum . 
(T) IS : 694 (Part 1 )- 1964 Speci 

fication for PVC insulated cables 

with copper conductors ( reprised ). 
( ii ) IS : 694 (Part II - 1964 Speci 

fication for PVC insulated 
cables with aluminium conductors 
(revised). 


CM / L - 352 
31 - 10 - 1961 


16 - 11 -67 


15 - 11 -68 


Mis Devidayal Cable Industries PVC insuliated cables , 250 , 430 

Ltd ., Gupta Mills Estate , Daru and 650 ; I 100 Yolls grade. 
khana , Reay Road , Bombay - io . 


4823 


-4824 


(5 ) 


18 CM { L - 385 

14 - 2 - 1962 


16 - 11-67 


19 come 


19 CM / L - 123 

19 - 6 - 1962 


1 - 12 -67 


-12-67 


30-11-68 


20 CM ; L - 461 

28-9 - 1962 


16 - 10 -67 


15 - 11-68 M /s Assam Saw Mills and Timber Tea - chest plywood panels. IS : 10 - 1964 Specification 
Co . Lid , 62 , Ballygunge Cir 

playwood tea - chests ( Second 
cular Road , ( I , Rainey Park ), 

rezzsion ) 
Calcutta - 19 ( Factory at Namsoj, 

NEFA ). 
30 - 11 -68 The Vikon Electrical Works (P ) Semi-enclosed electric fuses , 15 IS : 2086 - 1963 Specifiration for 

Ltd ., G . T . Road , Goraya , amp, 250 volts , with HC and arriers and hases used in 
(Punjab ). 

MEM types fuse bases and rewirable type electric fuses up 
cartiers , 

to 650 volts (reprised ). 
15- 10 -68 MsGeo Industries and Insecticides Endrin emulsifiable concentrates . IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 
( India ) Pvt . Ltd . , Field No. 82 / 3 

endrin emulsifiable concentrates. 
(a ) Sathankadu , Kaladipet, 

Madras - 19 . 
15 - 11 -68 M /s Geo Industries and Insecticides BHC water dispersible powder IS : 562 - 1962 Specification for 
( India ) Pvt. Ltd , Field No. 82 / 3 concentrates . 

BHC water dispersible powder 
(a ) Sathankadu , Kaladipet, 

concentrates (Teised ) . 
Madras - 19 . 
15 - 21 - 68 M / s Shalimar Tar Products ( 1935) Bitumen felts for water- proofing IS : 1322 - 1959 Specification for 

Ltd . , 26 Lake Road , Bhandup , and damp - proofing , type 3 , bitumen felts for water - proofing 
Bombay -78 having their office grades i and 2 . 

and damp- proofing . 
at 6 Lyons Range , Calcutta . 
31 - 10 - 68 M /s Hind Tin Industries , 107A , 18 -litre square tins 

IS : 916 - 1966 Specification for 
Raja Dinendra Street, Calcutta 

18 -litre square tins (revised ) . 


TILGAZETTEOFINDJA:DECEMBER29,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


21 CM /L -464 


16 - 11 -67 


24 - 10 - 1962 


22 CM ; L - 467 

30 - 10 - 1962 


16 - 11 -67 


23 CML- 470 ] 

30 - 10 - 1962 


I - II - 67 


6 . 


24 CM L - 492 

26 - 12 - 1962 


1 - 12 -67 


30 - 11 - 68 


M s Alma Electrical Corpn . (P ) Ltd ., Metal clad switches, 15 amp, IS : 1567 - 1960 Specification for 
Goria Mathurapur Road , Goria , 250 volts , with MEM type metal clad switches ( current 
24 Parganas having their office fuse base and carrier , 

rating not exceeding 100 amperes ). 
at 2 India Exchange Place (Second 

Floor), Calcuta - I . 
M s Associated Tube Wells (India ) Flushing cisterns , high level, 12 5 IS : 774 - 1964 Specification for 

Pyt, Ltd ., Modinagar having their litres capacity and is litres Ausbing cisterns for water - closets 
office at 12 Scindia House , New capacity . 

and urinals (valveless siphonic 
Delhi. 

type) ( second revision ) , 


25 CML- 564 

19 - 7 - 1963 


I - 12 - 67 


30 - 31 - 68 


[PARTII 


26 


1 6 - 11 -67 


CM /L - 589 
14 - 10 - 1963 


Sec,3(1)] 


1 5 - 21 -68 Mis PVC Wires and Cables Pvt. Type I oltage Contector (1) IS :694 ( Part I ) — 1961 Speci 
Ltd . , 1, Ivhan Glosh Rigu . Cul - PVC insula - grado 

fication for PVC insulatet 
cuita - 8 . ted Cable 

ahles with copper conuinctors 

( Telsti 
(i) Single 2501440 Copper or 
( unsheathed ) & 650l aluminium 

1100 
Volts 

grade 
iu ) Flat twin 250140 Copper ( ii ) IS : 6194 ( Part 111 - -- 1966 Supec 
with or with volls only fication for PVC insultatiu cihles 
out earth 

with aluminimum conductors 
continuity 
conductor 
PVC 
sheathcd ) 


16 - 11- 17 


27 CM L - 591 

21- 10 - 1963 


15 - 11 -68 Mi s Shalimar Ta Products (1935) Bitumen (Plastic ) for water - IS : 1589 - 1960 Specification for 
Limited , 26 Lake Road , Bhandup prefing purposes. 

bitumen (plastic for water 
Bombay - 71 having their office at 

proofing purposes . 
16 Bank Street, Bombay - I 


16 - 11 -67 


15 - 1 [ - 68 


28 CMI-S 


28 CM - 592 

21 - 10 - 1963 


16-11-67 


15-11-63 


M s Shalimar Tar Products ( 1935 ) Preformed fillers for expansion IS : 1838- 1961 Specification for 

Limited , 26 Lake Road , Bhan - joint in concrete non - extrud - preformed fillers for expansion 
dup , Bombay - 71 having their ing and resilient type (bitumen joint in Concrete non -extrlding 
office at 16 Bank Street , Bombay pregnated fibre ) 

and resilient type (bitumen 
impregnated fibre ) 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


- 


I . 


16 - 11 - 67 


15 - 11 - 68 


29 CMIL - 593 

28 - 10 - 1963 


IS :916 - 1966 Specification 

18 - litre square tins (retisesti, 


for 


The Metal Box Co. of India Ltd , 18 - litre square tips 

Jeppu , Mangalore , having their 
office at Barlow House , 599 , 
Chowsingha Road , Calcutta - 20 


1 - 12 -67 


30 CM -L -595 

30 - 10 - 1963 


30 -11-68 Mis Pesticides In lia , 

Road , Udaipur . 


Udaisagar En irin emulsifiable concentrates 


IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 

endrin emulsifiable concen 
trates . 


1 - 12 -67 


31 CM /-L -597 

30 - 10 - 1963 


IS : 789 - 1955 Specification for 

ink , drawing , water - proof, black . 


30 - 11-68 Mi s Camlin Private Limited , Ink , drawing, water - proof, black 

Kondivata , Near Marol Bazar , 
Andheri- Kula Road , Bombay 
59 having their office at 210 Lady 
Jamshedji Road , Bombay - 16 . 


4825 


2826 


1 


2 


3 


4 


1 - 12 -07 


32 CM : L -598 

- 11 - 1963 


TIEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER29,1967/PAUSA2.1889 


33 CM - L - 780 

10 - 9 - 1964 


33 CM 


16 - 11 -67 


30 - 11 -68 Ms. Skytone Electricals India ), (1j Single core (unsheathed ) (1 ) IS :694 (Part I)- 1964 Specifica 

43 Industiral Area , Faridabad PVC insulated cables , 250, tion for PVC insulated cables 
having their Head Office at 440 and 650 , 1100 V with ( for voltages up to 1100 V ) 
2655 Sadar Thana Road , copper or aluminium cord ; with copper conductors ( revised) . 
Delhi- 6 . 

( 2 ) Single core (PVC sheathed ) (17 ) IS :694 Part II )- 1964 Speci 
PVC insulated cables , 2501 fication for PVC insulated 
440 V with copper or alu - cables (for voltages up to 
minium conductors : 

1100 V ) with aluminium con 

ductors (retised ). 
( 3) Single cure (PVC sheathed ; 

PVC insulated cables . 6501 
1100 V with copper conductors 

only and 
( 4 ) Twin twisted (unsheathed ) 

flexible cords, 250140 V with 

copper conductors only . 
15 - 11 - 68 M s . S . R . Sharma & Sons , 140 Brass ball valves (horizontal IS :1703 - 1962 Specification for 

Rai Bahadur R . N . Guha Road , plunger type) 15 mm size . ball valves (horizontal plung for 
Dum Dum , Calcutta -28 , having 

type ) including floats for water 
their office at 85 Netaji Subhas 

supply purposes. 
Road , Calcut2. 
31 - 10 -68 M / s. Flintrock Products Pvt. Ltd . DDT dusting powders 

IS : 564 - 1961 Specification for 
Belvedere Road , Mazagaon , 

DDT dusting powders. 
Bombay - IO . 
30 - 11 - 68 A s. Satellite Engineering Ltd ., Starters for fluorescent lamps, IS : 2215 - 1963 Specification for 
P . O . Maize Products , Kath - 20 /40 /80 yatts rating. 

starters for fluorescent lamps 
wada , Ahmedabad - 2 . 

(Terised ). 
15 - 11 -68 M /s . K . L . Malhotra Brothers , Badminton Racket frames of IS :831 - 1966 Specification for 
WX - 83 Basti Nau , Julundur the following varieities : 

badminton racket frames re 
City . 

vised ). 
Grade I 
(1) Viking Malbro , fitted with 

steel shaft 
(H ) Viking Malbro , fitted with 

wooden shaft (Chainpion 
Model). 


16-11-07 


34 CM / L - 800 

12 - 10 - 1964 


I - 11 -67 


35 CM /L - 801 

20 - 10 - 1964 


1 - 12 -67 


36 


16 - 11 -67 


CM / L - 802 
23 - 10 - 1964 


[PartII 


( ) The Rock , fitted with steel 

Shaft. 
( ru ) Delux Malbro , fitted with 

wooden haft full overlays > 


Src 
, 
8 
( 
ii 
) 
] 


Grade 2 
a Blue Malbro (half overlays ) 
( ) Master (half overlays ), 
in Senorita (half overlays) . 


37 CM / L - 823 

2 - 11- 1967 


1 - 12 -67 


30 - 11 -68 


M / s. Swadeshi Industries Ltd . , Structural steel stan lard qua - IS :226 - 1962 Specification 

33 Netaji Subhas Road , Cal licy for sections up to 25 mm structural steel ( standard 
cutta . 

Chia or square and other sec lity ) (third revision ) . 
tions of equivalent area . 


for 
qua . 


33 CML- S24 

2 - 11- 1965 


1 - 12 -67 


30 - 11-68 


M /s . Swadeshi Industries Ltd ., Structural steel (ordinary qua - 

33 Netaji Subhas Road , Cal - lity for sections up to 25 mun 
cutta . 

dia or square and other sec - 
tions of equivalent area . 


IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification 

structural steel ordinary 
lity :. 


for 
qua 


39 CMIL -S31 

2 - 11 - 1967 


16 - 11 -67 


IS :226 - 1962 Specification 
structural steel ( standard 
Lity ; and rerrsion ). 


for 
qua 


· 15 - 11 - 63 Ms. Agarwal Hardware Works Structural steel (standard qua- 

Private Ltd., 167 , Chittaranjan Jityin tested steel rounds up 
Avenue , Calcutta . 

to 25 mm ) dia and flats 
up o I to 2 yi 
125 mm 6 mm to 50 mm 
12 7 mm ) and sections of 
equivalent area , 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
DECEMBER 
29 
, 
1967 
/ 
PAUSA 
2 
, 
1889 


40 CM / L - 832 

2 - 11 - 1964 


16 - 11-67 


1 5 - 11- 68 


M /s Agarwal Hardware Vorks Prt, Structural steel ( ordinary quali - IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 

Ltd , 167, Chittaranjan Ateslie , tyl, tested steel rounds up to structural steel ( crdinary quality ) 
Calcutta . 

1 (25 mm ) dia and fats up to 
I * X1/ 4 " to 2 , 1/ 2 (25 mm 

6mm to go nm ,- 12 : 7 mm ) 
und sections of equivalent arti . 


41 CM | L - 834 

9 - 11 


I - 12 -67 


30 - 11- 68 


M /s Special Steels Limited , Dat - $ 180 -wie lutte core of steel. 
tapara Road , Barif ] East) cored duminium conductoIS 
Bombay - 92 

for overhead power trans - 
.. ission purposes 


IS : 399- 1961 Specfcation for 
hard - crann stranded alu 
minil 2nd steel- cored alu 
minium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purposes 
Teised ) 


4827 


4828 


12 


CM / L -840 
23 - 1 [ - 1964 


[ - 12 -67 


30- 11 -68 


- 


M /s Shamsher Sterling Cable Type Voltage Conductor (1) IS : 694 ( Part 1) — 1964 Speci 
Corpn . Ltd , Plot No. 7 , S . S . I., 

grade 

fication for PVC insulated 
Kirol, Ghatkopar , Bombay - 77 (a ) Pl C insulated athles 

cables ( for voltages up to 1 100 
having their Regd office at Vas . (i) Single 2501440V & Copper V ) with copper conductors 
wani Mansions, Dinsha Vacba COTC 650 / 1100V os 

(retised ) 
Road , Bombay - 1. 

(unshea 

Aluni- ( ii ) IS : 694 (PartII )- 1964 
thed ) 

D10 

Specification for PVC insulated 
( ii) Single 2501440V & Alumi cables ( for voltages up to 11OO Y 
core 650 / 1100V nium with aluminium corductors 
(PVC 

only 

( TELISCH ). 
Sheathed . 
(6 ) PIC flexihle Cords 
(iii ) Twin 250 : 440 V Copper 
twisted 

only 
( unsbea 
thed ) 
( IV ) PVC 2501440 V Cepper 
insula 

only 
ted and 
sheathed 


- 


- 


THECAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER29,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


I - 12 - 67 


33 CM L - 873 

2S - 11- 1964 


IS . 2813 - 1964 

Indian hessian . 


Specificatico 


30 - 11-68 Ms National Co . Ltd , Rajgung : Jute hessian 

Andul, Howrah , having their 
office at 18A Brabourne Road , 
Calcutta - I . 


for 


44 


J - 12 -67 


CM / L - 874 
28 - 11- 1964 


30 - 11-68 AI s Natior al Co. Ltd , Rajgung, Jute sackings 

Andul, Howrab , having their 
office at ISA Brabourne Road , 
Calcutta - I 


IS : 1943- 1964 Specificatul n for 

A - yil jute bags ( caised , 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Spccification for 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS : 2875-1964 Specification for 

jute com socks. 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B - twill jute has (retised ). 
IS : 2818 - 1964 . Specification for 

Iodian hessian . 


T - 13 -67 


30 - 11- 68 


45 CM L - 875 

28 - 11 - 1964 


M /s Angus Co . Ltd , P . O . Angus, Jute hessian 

Hooghly having their Office at 
3 Clive Row , Calcutta - Į 


[PARTII--- 


46 CM / L - 876 

28 - II- 1964 


I - 12 -67 


30 -11-68 M /s Angus Co . Ltd ., P . O . Angus , Jute sackings 

Hooghly naving their Office at 3 , 
Clive Row , Calcutta - I 


SEC 
. 
3 
( 
ii 
) 
] 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags ( revised ) the 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B - twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 3794 - 1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twill ( L -twill) bags 
IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 

Indian , hessian 


47 CM /L - 879 

28 - 11 - 1964 


47 CMI- 83 


I - 12 -67 


-12-67 


30 - 11 -68 M / s Titaghur Jute Factory Co . Ltd ., Jutchessian 

P . O . Titaghur, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 3 , Clive 

Row , Calcutta - I 
30 - 11 - 68 M /s Titaghur Jute Factory Co . Ltd ., Jute sackings 

P . O . Titaghur, 2 . Parganas 
having their Office at 3 , Clive 
Roir , Calcutta - I 


I - I 


48 CM / L - 880 

28 - II - 1964 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specificawon for 

A - Twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 3794 - 1966 Specification 

Liverpool twill ( L - twill ) bags 
IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
DECEMBER 
23 
, 
1967 
/ 
PAUSA 
2 
, 
1889 


I - 12 - 67 


CM / L -881 
28- 11- 1964 


30 - 11- 68 M s Victoria Jute Co . Ltd ., P . O . Jute hessian 

Telmipara . Distt Hooghly , 
having their Office at 3 , Clive 

Row , Calcutta - 1 
30 - 11 -68 M /s Victoria Jute Co, Ltd ., P . O . Jute sackings 

Telinipara , Distt Hooghly , 
haring their Office at 3 , Clive 
Rrity , Calcutta - I 


1 - 12 - 67 


se CM / L - 882 

28 - 11 - 1964 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B - twill bags ( revised ) 
IS : 3794 - 1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twll ( L - twill) bags 
IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian 


1 - 12 -67 


SI CM / L - 893 

28- 11- 1964 


30- II - 68 M / s Hukumchand Jute Mills Ltd ., Jute hessian 

47. Ghoshpara Road, Halisahar 
having their Office at 9 , Bra 
bourne Road , Calcutta - I 


4 
829 


4890 


$2 


1 


I - 12 - 67 


/ L - 894 
II- 1964 


591 


30 - 11-68 M /s Hukamchand Jute Mills Ltd ., Jute sackings 

47, Ghoshpara Road , Halisahar 
having their Office at 9 , Brabourne 
Road , Calcutta - I 


IS : 1943 - 1064 Specification for 

A -twill jute bags (revised ) 


IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875- 1964 Specification for 
jute corn sacks 


for 


IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

B - twill jute bags (revised ) 


www 


IS : 3794 - 1966 Specification fer 
Liverpool twill (L - twild bags 


3 


[- 12 -67 


30 - 11-68 


M / L -895 
28 - II- 1964 


IS : 2818 - 19641 Specification 

Indian hessian 


for 


M /s Anglo - India Jute Mills Co ., Jute hessian 

Ltd ., (Lower Mill), P . O . Jagatdal, 
24 Parganas having their Office 
at 31, Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - I 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DEGEMBIR23,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


w 


$ 4 .- OM / L - 896 

11 - 1964 


[- 12 -67 


30 - 11-68 


M / s Anglo - India Jute Mills Co . Jute seekings 
Ltd ., (Lower Mill), P . O . Jagatual, 
24 Parganas having their Office 
at 31 , Netaji Subhas Rond , Cal 
cutta - 1 . 


... 


mation 


for 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (revised 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Spocification 

jute corn sacks 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

B - twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 3794 - 1966 Spocification for 

Liverpool twill (L - twill) bags 


- 


(1 - 12 -67 


15 . CM /L -897 

2 - 11- 1964 1 


for 


L 


IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification 

Indian hessian . 


30 - 11-68 M /s Anglo- India Jute Mils Co . Jute hessian 

Ltd ., (Middle Mill ), P . O . Jagat 
dal, 24 Parganas having their 
Office at 31 Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - I . 


[PARTII 


56 


CM / L - 895 
21 - 11- 1964 


I- 12 -67 


30 - 11 - 68 Mls Anglo - India Jute Mills Co . Jute sachine 

Ltd ., (Middle Mill ), P . O . 
Jagatdal, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at 31 Netaji Subhas 
Rond , Calcutta - I 


Sue,$(ii)] 


IS : 1913 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specigation for 

jute com sacks 
IS : 2565- 1965 Specification for 

B -twili jure bags ( revised ) 
IS : 3791- 1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twili (L -twill ) bags 
IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


57 CM /L - 203 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I- 12 - 67 


30 - 11- 08 


Jute hessia . 


M /s Gagalbhai Jute Mills ( P ) Ltd ., 

Sijberia , P . O . Ulberia , Howrah 
having their Office , at 18 , Neuji 
Sublias Road , Calcutta - I 


58 CM L - 904 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I- 12 -67 


3411- 63 , M /s Gagalbhai Jute Mills P ) Ltd , Jutc sackiggs 

Sijberia , P . O . Ulheria Howrah 
having their Office at 18 , Netaji 
Subhas Road , Calcutta - I 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Station for 

A -tsil jute bags ( rorised ) 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

haty cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964. Specification for 

jute corn sacks 
IS : 2566- 1965 Specification for 

B -twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 3794 - 1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twill (L -twill) bags 
IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian 


THIGAZETTÍOFÍNDIA:DECÍMBER25,1967/ÞAUSA2.1889 


5 


CM , L -911 
26 - 11- 1964 


{ 1- 12-17 


30- 11 -63 


Mis Shree Gourishenkar Jute Jute hessin 
Mills (P ) Ltd .,Ghoshpana Road , 
P . O . Garulia , Sumnagar, 24 
Puganas having their Office 
at 10 , Clive Row , Calcutta - I 
M / s Shree Gourishankar Jute Jute sackins 
Mills ( P ) Ltd , Ghoshpen Road , 
P . O . Garulia , Sumpagar , 24 
Perguas having their Office at 
Io , Clive Row , Calcutta . - I 


6 . 


I - 12 -67 


30- 11 4 


ML -912 
25- II - 1964 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Speciñcation for 

A - twill jute bags (rorised ) 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

herry cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specificatioz for 

jute corn saches 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B - twill jute bags (troised ) 


4831 


4832 


5 


€I CM / L - 927 

28- 11 - 1964 


I- 12 -67 


30- 11-68 


IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification 

Indian hessian 


for 


- 


M s Champdany Jute Co . Ltd., Jute hessian 

(Wellington Jute ), G . T . Road . 
Rishra . Hooghly , having their 
Office at 2 , Netaii Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - 1 


- 


-- 


62 CM - L - 928 

28 - 11- 1964 


I - 12 -67 


30 - 11 -63 M s Chainrany Jute Co, Ltd ., Jure sacking 

(Willingotop Jute , G . T . Road , 
Risbra , Hooghly , hafing 
their Office at 2 , Netaji Subhas 
Road Calcutta - I 


IS : 1913- 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (recised) 
IS : 2871- 1964 Speciácation for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute com sacks 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B -twil jute bags revised 
IS : 3794 - 1965 Specification for 

Liverpool trill ( L - twill ) bags 


- 


- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


- 


- 


- 


- 


63 CM / L - 939 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 -67 


IS : 2813 - 1964 

Indian hessiac 


Specification for 


-- 


30 - 11 - 68 The General Industrial Society Jute hessian 

Ltd . , Gondafpara , Hooghly hay 
ing their Office at 15 . India Ex 
change Place , Calcutta - I 


a care 


CM / L - 940 
28- 11- 1964 


3 - 12 -67 


15 


30 - 11 - 68 


Jute sackings 


The General Industrial Society 

Ltd . Gondalpara , Hooghly 
having their Office at 15, India 
Exchange Place , Calcutta - 1 


IS : 1943- 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (reviset) 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute com sacks 
IS 2566 - 1966 Specification for 

B - twil jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 3794- 1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twill (L - twill) bags 


65 CM /L 955 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 67 


30 - 11-68 


Jute hessian 


IS : 2318 -1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian . 


M /s Bharat Jute Mills , Lid ., 

Dasnagore , Howrah having their 
Office at 29 Strand Road , Cal 
cutta - I 


(Part11 


66 


CM / L - 956 
28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 67 


30 - 11 - 68 


M /s . Bharat Jute Mills Ltd , Dasna - Jute sackings 

gore , Howrah having their 
Office at 29 , Strand Road , Cal 
cutta - 1 . 


SFC,5411) 


IS : 1943:- 1964 Specification for 

A -twill jute bags (revised ). 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags . 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks. 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B -twill jute bags (revised ) . 
IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian . 


67 CM /- L - 957 

28 - 11- 1964 


1 - 12-67 


30 - 11 -68 M / s Prabharta k Jute Mills Ltd ., Jute hessian . 

Kamarhatti, B . T . Road , 24 , 
Parganas having their Office at 

5, Synagogue Street, Calcutta - I. 
30 - 11 - 68 M /s Prabartak Jute Mills Ltd . Jute sackings 

Kamarhatti, B . T . Road , 24, 
Parganas having their Office at 

5 , Synogogue Street, Calcutta - 1, 


68 CM / L - 958 

28- 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 67 


IS : 1943 : 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags ( revise .: ) . 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee į te bags . 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks. 
IS : 2556 - 1965 Specification for B 

twill jute bags (revised ). 
IS : 3794 - 1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twill ( I - twill ) bags 
IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 

Indian he sian . 


where 


THEGAZETTE,OFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSA%,1889 


69 CM /L - 959 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I- 12 - 67 


You 


-- 


- 


30 - 11 - 6 ! M s , Reliance Jute Mills Co . Ltd ., Jute hessian . . 

Rly , Station Kaniknarrah , P . O . 
Bhatpara , 24 , Parganas having 
their Office at 9 , Brabourne 

Road , Calcutta - I . 
30 -11- 68 M / s. Reliance Jute Mills Co. Ltd ., Jute packings. 

Rly , Station Kankinarrah , P . O . 
Bhatpara , 24 , Parganas having 
their Office at 9 , Brabourne Road , 
Calcutta - 1. 


70 CM / L - 960 

28 - 11- 1964 


70 CM1960 


I- 12-67 


-12-67 *30-11-68 


- 


- 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (revised ) . 
IS : 2874- 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags. 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for jute 

corn sacks. 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 
B - twill jute bags ( reviset ) . 
IS 3794 - 1966 Specification for 

Liverpool twill (L - twill) bags . 


71 CMILIO 


71 CM /L - 961 

28 - 11 - 1964 


21-12-07 


1 - 12 -67 


30-11-68 


Jute hessian 


30 - 11- 68 M /s . Kanoria Co. Ltd ., Chengail 

Rly , Station , P . O . Chakasi, 
Howrah having their office at 
18 , Mullick Street , Calcutta - 7 . 


IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian . 


4833 


4834. 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


72 CM L - 962 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 -67 


for 


30 - 11- 68 Ms. Kancria Co . Ltd ., Chengal Jute sackings . 

Rly . Station, P . O . Chakasi, 
Howrah having their Office at 
18 . Mullick Street , Clacutta - 7 . 


for 


IS : 19.43 - 1964 Specification 

A - twill jute bags (retised ). 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS: 2875- 1964 Specification 

jute corn sacks. 
IS : 2566 - IC65 Specification 
I B - twill jute bags írpoised ). 


for 
for 


73 CM : L - 1126 

12 - 4 - 1965 


16 - 11- 67 


15 - 11 68 


Ile Fort Willsm Co. Ltd . (Sicel (I) Stee ! wire icres for gereial (i ) IS : 2266 - 1963 Specification for 
Wire & Rope Division ), 6 : 4 , engineering purposes . 

steel wire roses for general 
G . T . Road , Kennagar, Distt. 

engineering purposes. 
Hooghly, West Bengal having ( 1) Round strand giyanised (11) IS : 2581 - 1963 Specification for 
their Regd . office at 14 , Netaji steel wire ropes for shipping round strand 22 .ranised steel 
Subhas Road , Claculta - I . 

purposes . : 

wire ropes for shipping purposes . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER23,1967/PAUSÀ2,1889 


74 CM L - 1188 

28 - 10 - 1965 


I- 11- 67 


for 


31- 10 -68 11 $. Kanpur Festicides, Magar - BHC dusting powders , 

ware, Distt. Unnao having their 
Office at 16178 , Civil Lines , 
Kanpur . 


IS : 561 - 1962 Specification 

BHC dusting powders. 


16 - 11-67 


for 


75 CM L - IICO 

20 - 10 - 1965 


15 - 11 - 68 Ms. Bharat Pulverising Mills Pet. Maiathion dusting powders. 

Ltd ., Hexamar House , 28, 
Sayani Road , Bombay - 28 . 


IS : 2568 - 1963 Specification 
malathion dusting powders . 


76 CM L - 1163 

4 - 11 - 1965 


16 - 11-67 


15- 11- 68 


The Leads Meter Mfg . Co. Ltd ., Water meters ( domestic tyk ) . 
Mathuradas Mills Compound , 15 mm size. 
Delisle Road , Lower Parel, 
Bombay - 13 having their Office at 
gateway Building , Apollo Bunder 
Bombay - I . 


IS : 779- 1965 Specification for 
water meters (donestic type ) 
second revision ). 


77 CM / L - 1342 

30 - 9 - 1956 


1 -12-67 


130- 11- 68 Ms. Swan India Private Ltd ., Dyel based fountain pen 

12 I , Mathua Road , P . O . Ames (blue , green ud ra ) . 
Nigar , Faridabad . 


inks IS : 1221- 1957 . Specification for 

fountain pen inks (blue , TED , 
violet , black and roch . 


[PARTft 


18 


ML- I 358 
* II - 1966 


[- 12 -67 


3 0 - 11 -68 


SEC,8(ii)] 


M / s. Shamsher Sterling Cable Weather proof polythene inst - IS : 3035 Part II) 1965 Speci 

Corpo. Ltd . , Plot No. 7 , S . S . I . iated , taped , braided and fication for thermo- plastic insu 
Kirol, Ghatkopar , Bombay - 77 compounded cables with lated weather -proof cablu , poly 
having their Regd . Office at Quminium conductors of the thenc insulated , taped , braided 
Vasvani Mansions, Dinsha following types ; 

and compounded . 
Vacha Road , Bomay - . 

(i) Single core, 2501440 V 

grade. 
(ii) Twin core , 250/ 440 V grade ; 

and 
( iii) Signle core, 650 /1 100 

Voits. grade 


to 


GM /L - 1359 
P - II - 1966 


( 1- 12 -67 


( 30 - 11-68 M /s. Skytone Electricals _ ( India ), Weatherproof polythene : insu - IS : 3035 (Part II)- 1965 Specifica 

43 , Industrial Area , Faridabad lated , taped , braided and com - tion for thermoplastic insulated 
having their Head Ofice at pounded cables with glami- Feather - proof cables , polythene 
2655 , Sadar Thana Road , Delhi- 6 . nium conductors of the follow - ipsulatad , taped , braided and 

ing - 

campounded 
( Single core , 2501440 V grade ; 
( 11) Single core, 650/1100 V grade ; 
(iu ) Twin core, 250 /440 Y grade. 


- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER29,1967/PAUSA2,1889 


- 


m 


[No. MD /33 :16/A. ] 
( DR.) SADGOPAL , 

Dy . Director 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , COVERNTOINT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1967 


4835 


