$4 


034 


The Gazette 


of India 


मन्यमय जयते 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


SIMLA , SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1963 ( ASADHA 1, 1885 ) 


Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 


PART 1 - SECTION 4 
Miscellaneous Notifications Including Notificatlons, Orders, Advertisements 

and Notices issued by Statutory Bodles 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS (iv ) " articled clerk " means a clerk engaged under 
OF INDIA 

articles by a member entitled to train articled 

clerks under these Regulations ; 
(Chartered Accountants ) 

(v ) " certificate of practice" means a certificate grant 

ed under these Regulations entitling the holder 
NOTIFICATION 

to practise as a chartcred accountant; 
New Delhi-1, the 10th June 1963 

(vi) " fellow " means a fellow of the Institute ; 
No. 1-CA (30 ) / 63 — The following draft of the Regula (vii ) “ graduate " means a graduate of a University con 
tions under the Chartered Accountants Act , 1949 

stituted by law in India or a graduate of any 
(XXXVIII of 1949), which it is proposed to make in exer 

other University recognised by the Central 
cise of the powers conferred by sub -sections ( 1) and ( 3 ) of 

Government; 
Section 30 of the said Act, is published for information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is ( viii) " member " means a member of the Institutc; 
hereby given that the draft will be taken up for considera 
tion on or after the 10th August 1963 . 

(ix ) " President" means the President for the time 

being elected under section 12 and in his absence 
Any objection or suggestion which may be received from 

the Vice -President for the time being elected 
any person with respect to the said draft before the datc 

under section 12 ; 
specified will be considered by the Council of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India , New Delhi, 

( x ) " Professional address " means an address of the 

place of business that is to say , the place where 
For the existing Chartered Accountants Regulations 

a member is carrying on his profession (or where 
1949, substitute the following : - 

he is carrying on the profession at more than one 
place , the principal place ) or the place of employ . 

ment if he is employed and shall include, wherc 
CHAPTER I 

necessary , the place of residence if the member 

neither carries on the profession nor is employed ; 
PRELIMINARY 

(xi) " Schedule " means a Schedule annexed to these 
1, Short title and cominencement ( 1) These Regula 

Regulations ; 
tions may be called the Chartered Accountants Regula 
tions, 1963. 

(xii ) " Secretary " means the Secretary or any Deputy 

or Assistant Secretary appointed by the Council 
( 2 ) They shall come into force on such date as the 

or any person acting as the Secretary under the 
Council may by notification in the Gazette of India ap 

direction of the Council; 
point in this behalf . 

( xiii) " section " and " sub -section " mean a section and 

sub -section of thc Act; 
2 . Interpretation — (1) In these Regulations , unless there 
is anything repugnant in the subject or context 

(xiv ) " Service as an audit clerk " means service as an 

audit clerk in the office of a member entitled to 
(i ) " Act" means the Chartered Accountants Act, 

engage and train articled clerks under these Rogu 
1949 (XXXVIII of 1949 ); 

lations. 

( 2 ) All words and expressions uscd herein and not de 
( ii ) " annual meeting " means the first meeting of the 
Council held after the Ist day of August of each 

fined in these Regulations but defined in the Act shall have 

the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act . 
year ; 

(3 ) Thc General Clauses Act 1897 ( X of 1897) shall ap 
siis appropriate Form means a Form contained in ply so far as may be, to the interpretation of these Regu 

Schedule A , suitable for the purpose , modilied lations as it applies to the interpretation of the Central 
where necessary ; 

Acts . 
L /P105GI 

( 309 ) 


310 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1969 


[ Part 111 -- SE E 


-- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


M 


(b ) 


0 


( 


) 


CHAPIER II 

(v ) has served for a continuous period of not less than 
MEMBERS 

five years as a full time paid assistant under a 

chartered accountant in practice or a firm of such 
3 . Register - - The Register of meinbers shall be in the 

chartered accountants : 
appropriate Form . 

Provided that the Council mly , in its discretion , con 
4 . Qualifications for members Subject to the provisions 
of sections 4 and 8 , a person shall be entitled to have his 

sidcr any other cxpericnce not specifically mentioned in 
name entered in the Register if he : 

" clauses (1), ( ii ), (iii ), (iv ) or (v ) abovc, as equivalent to the 

experience formally acquired as a result of continuous 
( a ) has passed the cxamulations and completed the practice for a period of five ycars as a chartered 

practical training specificd in Schedule B ; or accountant . 
possesses qualifications recognised by the Council 

Explanation I - A member shall be deemned to have ac 
as equivalent to the examinations and the practi quired the cxperience normally acquired as a result of 

cal training relerred to in clause (a ) above ; or continuous practice for a period of five years as a chartered 
(c) is eligible under clauses (i), (ui) or ( iv) of sub - accountant; 

section ( 1 ) of section 4 : 
Provided that a person shall not be entitled if he, in 

(a ) iſ he has served continuously for a period of not 
the opinion of the Council , 

less than five years in any one or more posts 

mentioned in clauses (i), (ii), ( iii ), (iv ) and (v ) 
(a ) has at dily time solicited clients or professional 

above; or 
work either directly or indirectly, by circulai, 

(b ) if he has partly been in practice and partly served 
advertisement, personal communication or inter 

in any one or more posts mentioned in clauscs 
view or by any other incans ; or 

(i), ( ii ), (iii ), (iv ) and (v ) above , so that the total 
(b ) has at any time advertised his professional attain 

period of practice id service shall not be less 
ments or services; or 

than five years , provided therc is no break 
c ) has done at any time anything which aims at 

belween the practice and the service . 
publicity or amounts to canvassing with a view 

Explanation 11 – For the purpose of clausc (ii ) above , 
to sctting up practice as a chartered accountant; the private or Governm 

untant ; the private or Governmejit, industrial, commercial or 
or 

trading undertaking shall have at all material times (a ) 
( d ) is not a fit person to be enrolled us a meinber in a minimum paid up capital of twentyfivc lakhs of rupees 
view of his antecedents , 

or (b ) a minimum turnover of fifty lakhs of rupees or 
5 . Application for membership - - (1) (a ) A person who 

(c ) a minimum paid -up capital of ten lakhs of rupees and 
desires to have his name entered in the Register shall sub 

to a minimuin turnover of thirty lakhs of rupees. 
mit to the Secretary an application , in the appropriate 6 . Fees ( 1 ) A person applying for the membership of 
Form , together with docuincntary evidence about his eligi- the Institlile shall pay an entiance fee of three hundred 
bility for membership and the lee picscribed in these rupees : 
Regulations. 

Provided that he may pay one hundred rupees along 
( b ) An associate who desires to be admitted as a follow with his application and the balance of two hundred 
shall submit to thc Sccretary an application , in the appro 

rupees in two instalments of one hundred rupees cach , the 
priate Form , together with the prescribed entrancc fce. 

first to be paid within twelve months and the second 
(2 ) The applicant shall furnish such further informa within twenty four months of the date of his being enrolled 
tion as the Council may, from time to tinc, require . 

as a inember . 
( 8 ) For the purposes of sub -section (3 ) of section 5 , an (2 ) An associate applying for admission as a fellow 
associate shall be deemed to have acquircd experience noi - shell pay an entiance fee of two hundred rupees . 
mally acquired as a result of continuous practice for a 
period of five years as a chartered accountant, if he: 

(3 ) An associate shall pay an annual membership fee of 
(i ) being in Government service . is ordinarily hold , twenty -eight rupees which shall be dlie and payable on the 
ing or has ordinarily held for a continuous 

1st day of April in each year : 
period of not less than five years , any post in Provided that half the dinount of the annual member 
Class I or equivalent thereto , not below the rank sbip fce shall be payable by a person admitted on or after 
of (a ) an Incoinc-tax Officer , (b ) an Accounts the 1st day of October and before the 1st day of April next 
Officer , (c ) an Audit Officer , ( d ) a Financial following 
Officer , (c ) an Officer in the Department of Com 
pany Law Administration , (f) a Deputy Registrar ( 1) A fellow shall pay an und 
of Co-operative Societies , (g ) an Officer in the eighty -three rupees which shall be due and payable on the 
Departınent of Commercial Taxes, etc .; 

Ist day of April in each year : 
(ii ) bcing employed in a private or Government, Provided that an associate , on being admitted as a 

industrial, commercial or trading undertaking , is fellow in the course of the year , shall pay fifty -five rupees 
ordinarily holding or has ordinarily held for a only for that year. 
continuous period of not less than five years, a 
post not below the rank of a Chief Accountant, 

(5 ) A moinber in practice shall pay an annual certificate 
a Deputy Chief Accountant, dil Internal Auditor te 

fee of twenty -eight rupees which shall be due and payable 
or any equivalent post carrying duties relating to on thc Ist day of April in each year . 
accounts, cost accounts , audit , financial , taxation 

(6 ) A member shall pay to the Council , for the benefit 
and / or secretarial work ; 

of the Regional Council within whose territorial jurisdic 
(iii ) being employed under a statutory authority , is tion his professional address is situate , an annual fec of 

ordinarily holding or has ordinarily held for a six rupees which shall be duc and payable on the Ist day of 
continuous period of not less than five years, any April in each year . 
post equivalent to any of those mentioned in 

7 . Refund of fee - A person whose application for ad 
clause ( ii ) abovc; 

mission to the inembership of the Institutc or whose 
(iv ) being employed under a local authority, is ordi application for a certificate of practice is not accepted by 

narily holding or has ordinarily held for a the Council , shall be entitled to a refund of the fee paid 
continuous period of not less than five years, any by him . 
post equivalent to any of those mentioned in clause 
( ii ) above , provided the local authority has with 8. Certificate of inembership If the application is 
in its jurisdiction a population of not less than accepted by thc Council , the applicant s name shall be 
five lakhs of persons during cach of the five years entered in the Register and a certificate of membership in 
of his service ; 

the appropriate Form shall be issued to him , 


PART III - SEO 4 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


311 


Or 


9 . Certificate of practice - ( 1 ) ( i ) A member may apply ExplanationA notice to the finn shall be deemed to 
to thc Council for a certificate inutlug hiin to practise be a notice to all the members who are partners or cmp 
als chartered accountant throughout India. 

loyees of that firm . 
(11) In application for the grant or renewal of a certi (6 ) A member agamist whom the complaint is made 
ficate shall be accompanied bị the annual certificate fee (hercivaſtcr referred to as the respondent ) may, within 
and shall be in the appropriatc Forin . 

fourteen days of the service of a copy of the complaint 
( iii) The certificate shall be issued in the appropriate 

under sub -regulation (5 ), or within such time as may be 

cxtended by the Secrctary , forward to the Secretary a 
Forn and shall be valid until the 30th day of Junc of the 
following year, 

written statement in his defence verified in the same 

manner as the complaint. 
(iv) The validity of the certificate issued in the appro 
priato Form shall be extended from time to time by a 

(7 ) On a perusal of the complaint and the written state 

ment, il ally , the President may call for such additional 
certificate by the Secretary in the appropriate Form . 

particulars or documents connected therewith either from 
( 2 ) On his ceasing to be in practice, a member shall the complainant or the respondent as he may consider 
inform the Council as soon as may be but in any case not 
later than one month from the date he coased to practise . 

(8 ) (i) If on a perusal of the complaint and the written 
10 . Cancellation of a certificate of practice ( 1 ) A certi- stalement , if any, and , other relevant documents , the 
ficate of practice shall be cancelled - - 

Council is of opinion that therc is a prima fucie case 
(i) when the name of the holder of the certificate is against the respondent, the Council shall cause an enquiry 
removed from the Register ; or 

to be made in the matter by the Disciplinary Committee . 
( ii ) when the Council is sutislied that such certificatc ( 11) If, on the other hand , the Council is of opinion that 

was issued on the basis of incorrect . uisleiding or there is 110 prima facir case against the respondent, the 
false information . Or by mistake or inadvertence complaint shall be filed and the complainant and the res 

pondent shall be informed accordingly . 
( iii ) when a member has ceased to practise . 

(9 ) (i) Any notice issued by the Secretary under this 
(2 ) The Cancellation of a certificate shall be effective : - - 

regulation shall be sent to the member or the firm , as the 

case may be , by registered post with acknowledgement due. 
(a ) in a case falling under clause (i) of sub -regula 
tioni ( 1 ) from the clate on which and during the 

(ii) If any such notice is returned unserved with an 
period for which the name of the holder of the 

endorsement to the effect that the addressee had refused to 
certificate was removed from the Register ; and 

" accept the notice , the notice shall be deemed to have been 

sci ved . 
(b ) in any olher case from such date and for such 

( iii ) If the notice is rcturned with an endorsement to 
period us the Council may deteiinine . 

the effect that the addresscc cannot be found at the address 
(3 ) Where a certificate is cancelled , the date from which given , the Secretary shall ask the complainant to supply to 
and the period for which the certificate shall stand can - hin the correct address of the member or the firm , as the 
celled , shall be communicated to the member and shall case may be. 
also be notified in the Gazette of India 

(iv ) A ſrcsłu notice shall be issucd to the member or the 
11. Complaints and enquiries relating to miscondut firm at the correct address. 
of members - ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this regula 
tion , a complaint against a inember under section 21 shall ( 10 ) The provision relating to a notice shall apply 
be investigated and all other enquiries relating to mis mutatis mutandis to a letter . 
conduct of such member shall be held by the Disciplinary 
Comınittee : 

12. Information relating to misconduct of members - - 

The procedure laid down in regulation 11 shall , so far 
Provided that if the subject matter of a complaint is , as inay be, apply to any information received under section 
in the opinion of the President, substantially the same as 21. 
has been covered by any previous complaint or informa 
tion received , the Secretary shall file the said complaint 

19 . Procedure in any enquiry before the Disciplinary 
without any further action and inform the complainant 

Committee - ( 1 ) It shall be the duty of the Secretary to 
accordingly . 

place before the Disciplinary Committee all the facts 

brought to his knowledge which arc relevant for thc pur 
( 2 ) A complaint under section 21 shall be in the appro - Dose of the enquiry by the Disciplinary Committee . 
priate Form . 

(2) The respondent shall have a right to defend himself 
( 8 ) Such complaint shall contain the following parti- before the Disciplinary Committee either in person or 
culars, namely : 

through a legal practitioner or any other member . 
(a ) the acts and omissions which , if proved , would (3 ) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, 

render the person complained against guilty of the Disciplinary Committee shall have the power to regu 
professional or other misconduct. 

late its procedure in such manner as it considers just and 
the oral and / or documentary evidence relied expedient . 
upon in support of the allegations made in the (4 ) Where, in the course of an enquiry , the personnel 
complaint. 

of the Disciplinary Coinmittee is changed for any reason 
( 4 ) The Secretary shall return a complaint which is not whatsoever , the respondent shall have the right to have 
in the appropriate Forin or which does not contain the the enquiry made de novo and if he exercises that right, 
aforesaid particulars to the complainant for representa - the cinquiry shall be conducted a 100 . 
tion after removing the objections thereto and within such 11. Report of the Disciplinary Committee (1) The 
time as the Secretary may speciſy . 

Disciplinary Committee shall subinil its report to the 
(5 ) Ordinarily within sixty days of the receipt of a com - Council . 
paint under section 21, the Secretary shall 

(2) The Council shall consider the report of the Dig 
(a ) if the complaint is against a member , send a copy ciplinary Committee and if, in its opinion , a further en 

thereof to such member at his profcssional address quity is necessary , shall cause such further enquiry to be 
or his residential address , if he has no professional made whereupon a further report shall be submitted by 
address, as entered in the Register; 

the Disciplinary Committee . 
(b ) if the complaint is against a firm , send a copy 18 ) The Council shall, on the consideration of the 

thereof to the firm at the address of its head office , re 
as entered in the register of offices and firms, with 
a notice calling upon the firm to disclose the name (4 ) If the finding is that there is no case for passing one 
of the member who is answerable to the charge of of the orders specified in clauses ( a ) or (b ) of sub-section 
misconduct and send a copy of the complaint to (4 ) of Section 21, the complainant and the respondent 
him . 

shall be informed accordingly . 


312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


[ PART III — SBO . 4 


cuted to the cation of men shall be 


15 . Procedure in a hearing before the Council - ( 1) If (2 ) Notwithstanding the fact that it candidate has obi 
the Council, in view of its findings, is of opinion that lained the ininimum number of marks for passing an 
there is a case for passing one of the orders specified in examination , the Examination Cominittee inay after 
clauscs (a ) or (b ) of sub -section (1 ) of section 21, it shall- giving an opportunity to the candidate of being heard , for 
(a ) ſurnish to the respondent a copy of the report of 

reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to declare him 
the Disciplinary Commnittee and a copy of its 

10 have passed the examination . 
lindings; and 

(8 ) Any order passed by the Examination Committee or 
(b ) give him a notice indicating the order proposed 

osed the person authorised by it, may be reviewed cither by 

u 
to be passed against him and calling upon him the Council or an authority appointed by it for this 
to appear before it on a specified date or if he purpose . 
does not wish to be heard in person , to send 23. Refund of fees ( 1) The foc paid by a candidate who 
within a specified time, such representation in has been admitted to an examination , shall not, except as 
writing as he may wish to make against the pro- otherwise provided in sub -regulation ( 2 ), be refunded . 
posed order . 

(2) Where a candidate applies to the Council within 
( 2 ) The scope of the hearing or of the representation fifteen days of the last date of the examination for the 
in writing , as the case may be, shall be restricted to the 

transfer of the fee for the examination on the ground that 
order proposed to be passed . 

he was prevented froin attending the examination on 
(3) The Council shall, after hearing the respondent, if account of circumstances beyond his control, the Council 
he appears in person , or after considering the representa - may permit the fee paid by such a candidate to be appro 
tion , if any, inade by him , pass such orders as it may think priated towards the fee payable for the next examination 
fit . 

only. 
(4 ) The orders passed by the Council shall be communi 

24 . Candidates to be supplied with admission tickets 
cated to the complainant and the respondent . 

An admission ticket stating the place, dates and times at 
16 . Nolification of removal- - The removal of a member s which the candidate may prescnt himself for an cxamind 
name from the Register shall be notificd in the Gazette tion shall be sent to each candidate to the address given 
of India and shall also be communicated in writing to him by him in his application so as to reach him not less than 

17 . Restoration to membershib — The Council may , on fourteen days before the commencement of the cxamina 
an application in the appropriate Form , received in this tion . 
behalf from a member whose name has been permanently 25 . Examination Results ( 1) ( a ) A list of candidates 
or temporarily removed from the Register restore his name, declared successful at each examination shall be published . 
if he is otherwise eligible to such membership , on his pay 
ing before such restoration , the balance of the entrance 

(b ) The names of candidates obtaining distinction in the 

10 
fee, if any, the annual membership fec and the annual examinati 

the annual examination shall be indicated in the list. 
fee on behalf of the Regional Council for the year during (c) Every candidate shall be individually informed of 
which his name is restored , and , if his name has been his result . 
removed under clause ( c ) of sub-section ( 1) of section 20 , a 
restoration fee of twentyfive rupees together with the 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in schedule b , 
arrears on account of the annual membership fee , subject 

the Council may, in its discretion , vary the minimum 
to a maximum of three hundred rupees: 

number of marks required for passing an examination , 
Provided that the restoration of a member s name which ( 8 ) A candidate who passes at onc sitting an examina 
was removed under the orders of the High Court shall be tion with seventy percent of the total marks for all the 
effected only in accordance with such orders. 

papers for that examination shall be considered to have 
18 . Notification of restoration - - The restoration of a 

passed the examination with distinction . 
member s name to the Register shall be notified in the (4 ) (i) Information as to whether a candidate s answers 
Gazette of India and shall also be communicated in writ in any particular paper or papers of any examination have 
ing to him . 

been cxamined and marked shall be suplied to the candi 
CHAPTER III 

date on his submitting within a month of the declaration 
EXAMINATIONS 

of the result of the said examination , an application ac 

companied by a fee of ten rupees for all or any of the 
19 . Conditions to become a member - - Except as other 

papers. 
wise provided for in the Act or these Regulations, a person 
wishing to qualify himself for membership of the Institute (ii) The fee shall be only for verifying whether the 
shall pass the Preliininary , Intermcdiate and Final Examni- candidate s answers in any particular paper or papers have 
nations, and complete the practical training, as provided been cxamined and marked , and not for the re- examina 
in Schedulc B . 

tion of the answers. 
20 . Conduct of examinations — ( 1) The examinations (iii ) The marks obtained by a candidate in individual 
shall be conducted in such manner and at such times and questions or in sections of a paper shall not be supplied . 
places as the Council my direct : 

(iv ) If as a result of such verification , it is discovered 
Provided that there shall be at lcast one examination in that there has been either an omission to examine or 
cach year. 

mark any answer or answers or there has been a mistake 
( 2 ) The dates and places of the examination and other in the totalling of the marks, the fee for verification shall 
particulars shall be notified in the Gazette of India, 

be refunded in full to the candidate . 
21. Application for admission to an examination - An (5 ) Every candidate shall be furnished frec with a state 
application for admission to an examination shall be made ment of marks obtained by him in the papers in which he 
in the approved form a copy of which may be obtained has appeared in the examination : 
from the Secretary and , together with the fee fixed for the 

Provided that if a request for the statement of marks 
examination , shall be sent so as to reach the Council in 

secured by a candidate at any examination is received after 

secur 
accordance with the directions given by it . 

the expiry of two months , from the date of the declaration 
22 . Right to refuse admission to examinalion ( 1) The of the result of the examination , the statement shall be 
Examination Committec or a person authorised by it in furnished on payment of a fee of two rupees for each 
this behalf may, for a sufficient reason to be recorded paper , subject to a maximum of five rupecs for all the 
refuse to admit a candidate to an examination or admit papers in the case of the Preliminary or the Intermediate 
him to an examination , subject to such conditions as it 

Examination or in any one Group of the Final Examina 

Examination or in any one Group of the 
or he may consider to be responsible in the circumstances tion and ten rupees for all the papers of the Final Examina 
of the case or may for any sufficient reason to be recorded , tion . 
refuse a candidato admission to in examination hall or 26 . Examination cerlificates - A candidale passing the 
expel him from an examination hall, after he has been Preliminary , Intermediate and Final Examinations shall be 
admitted to it in the usual course. 

granted a certificate to that effect in the appropriate Form . 


matke malinweof thanmwers, com 


PART III-- SEO . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


313 


27 . Disciplinary action in connection with examina ( 3 ) Where the preinium charged by the employer ( x 
tions-- - If a candidate is reported to have bebaved in a dis- ceeds five hundred rupees, it shall be deposited in the 
orderly manner in or near an examination hall or is separate account with a scheduled bank ; but where such 
reported to have resorted to or attempted to have resorted prcmini is to be refunded in a lump sum , it shall be 
to unfair means for the purpose of passing an examination , kept as a fixed deposit with a scheduledi bank and together 
the Council may , on receipt of a report to that cllcct and with the interest acchucd thorcon shall subject to satis 
after such investigation as it may deem necessary, take such factory service and good conduct of the articled clerk , be 
disciplinary action as it may think fit . provided that an icluded to him not later than fourteen days after the 
opportunity shall be given to the candidate of being heard date of completion or termination of articles, as the case 
before an order adverse to him is passed . 

may be : 
Explanation - - Disciplinary action may include the 

Provided that if the articles are cancelled under regula 
cancellation of any examination result in relation to the tion 37 , the preinium or balance of the premium , if any, 
candidato . 

shall be transferred by the employer to the Council for 

such use as it may deem ſit. 
28 . Examiners - - The Council shall, in consultation with 
the Examination Committee, maintain a list of approved 

(4 ) Where an articlecl clerk does not complete the 
examiners for the purpose of the examinations under 

articles, any dispute between him and the employer in 
these Regulations. 

relation to the refund of the premium shall be referred to 

the Council and the decision of the Council thercon 
CHAPTER IV 

shall be binding on the articled clerk and the employer . 
ARTICLED AND AUDIT CLERKS 

34. Admission to articleship - (1) A member entitled to 

cngage articled clerks under these Regulations shall, 
29 . Engagement of articled clerks— - ( 1) (a ) Associates and before accepting a person is an articled clerk satisfy 
fellows, who are in practice , or who are deemed to be in himself that : ( a ) his professional practice or that of his 
practice within the meaning of sub -section (2 ) of scction employer , if he is an employce of a chartered accountant 
2 , shall , subject to the provisions of thesc Regulations, be in practice or a firin of such chartered accountants , is 
entitled to engage and train articled clerks, 

suitable for the purpose of training articled clerks and ; 
(b ) A fellow in practice may engage two articled clerks; (b ) such person : (i) is not less than sixteen years of age 

on thc date of commencement of the articles and ( ii ) 
Provided that if he has been in continuous practice for 

cither has passed the Preliminary Examination or the 
not less than seven years, ( including practice before the 

Intermediate Examination under these Regulations or is 
commencement of the Act ) or if he has been in continuous 

a graduate or has passed the National Diplonia in Com 
practice as a lellow for not clss than two years, he mily inerce Examination held by the All India Council for 
cngage three articled clerks : 

Technical Education , or has passed the Government 
Provided further that if he has been in continuous prac- Diploma in Accountancy Examination or an Exainina 
tice for not less than fifteen years (including practice beforc tion recognised as cquivalent thcreto by the rules for the 
the commencement of the Act ) or has been in continuous award of the Government Diploma in Accountancy : 
practice as a fellow for not less than ten years , he may Provided that nothing contained in this regulation 
cngage four articled clerks. 

shall prevent hiin from engaging as an articled clerk a 
(c ) An associate in continuous practice for not less than person who had entered into articles or audit service 
thrce years ( including practice before the commenccinent of previous to the 1st day of July 1956 . 
thc Act) may engage onc articled clerk . 

(2) A member entitled to erain articled clerks shall, 
(d ) An associate or a fellow in the service of a chartered before cxecuting the articles in the appropriate Form , 
accountant in practice or a firm of such chartcred ac require a person who is to be articled to hiri to serve him 
countants and who has been in practice and / or in service for a period of sixty days, hereinafter referred to as Pre 
for a continuous period of not less than three years with liminary Service , 
a chartered accountant in practice or a firm of such 

(3 ) Registration of such Preliminary Service shall be 
chartered accountants may engage one articled clerk : 

made with the Council within a period of ten days from 
Explanalion 1 - For the purpose of this regulation , a the date of the commencement of such service. 
member in practice means a meinber who is, in the opinion 

(4 ) If on completion of such service, the meinber is 
of the Council , mainly engaged in practice which is suit 

satisfied that the person is suitable for the profession , the 
able for training an articled clerk for the profession of 

articles shall be executed in the appropriate Form and 
accountancy 

the period of articles shall be taken to have commenced 
Explanation 11 - A member who ceases to be in practice from the date of the commenceinent of the aforesaid Preli 
or gives up service under a chartered accountant in prac - minary Eervice . 
tice or a firm of such chartered accountants and who at 
the time of such discontinuance of such practice or such 

(5 ) Nothing contained in sub -regulations (2 ) to (4) shall 

prevent the member froin accepting a person as an articled 
not engage any articled clerk , if subsequently he sets up 

clerk whose name has previously heen entered in the re 
practice or takes up service under a chartered accountant 
in practice or a firm of such chartered accountants until 

gister of articled clerks. 
such time as the articled clerk who was serving under him 33 . Registration of articled clerk as student - ( 1) (a ) An 
previously, completes the period of his articles. 

articled clerk shall register himself as a student of the 

coaching organisation set up under the aegis of the Insti 
(2 ) The Council may, subject to such terms and con 

tute. 
ditions as it may deem fit, relax in any casc any of the 
provisions of this regulation . 

(b ) The articled clerk shall subinit, by registered post, 

through his employer, an application in the approved 
30 . Member not to engage in India articled clerks form with the requisitc fee , within ten days from the date 
under the bye-laws of any other Institute or Society -- No of the commencement of the Preliminary Service, for 
member shall engage in India , articled clerks under the registration as a student of the coaching organisation . 
bye-laws of any other Institute or Society, except in 

(C) If the aplication for registration is not submitted 
accordance with the permission granted by the Council. 

within the time specified , the period of service upto a date 
81. Premium from articled clerks — (1) No articled clerk ten days prior to the date when he subunits it for such 
shall be required to pay a premium exceeding two registration , shall not be counted for the purpose of these 
thousand rupees. 

Regulations. 
(2 ) Subject to satisfactory service and good conduct of (2 ) Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to 
the articléd clerk , any premium charged by the employer a person who has passed the Government Diploma in 
shall be refunded by him in full to the articled clerk in Accountancy Examination or an examination recognised 
such instalments as the former may decm fit but in any as equivalent thereto by the rules for the award of the 
casę not later than fourteen days after the date of the Government Diplomas in Accountancy or who had entered 
completion or termination of the articles , as the case into articles or audit service before the 1st day of July 
may be. 

1956 . 


314 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[ PART III- - SEO. 4 


34 . Iirculion and registration of articles (1) (i) The (2) Whered salaried eniployee of a chartered ac 
articles shall be executed in the appropriate l orm . 

countant in practice or of a firm of such chartered 
(ii) Ilic witicles shall be cxccuted on prunter forms, accountants docy not set up priciice independently , his 
which shall be supplied free by the Secretary . 

articled clerk shall, subject to the pproval of the Presi 

dcit , serve the chartcicd accountant in practice or thc 
(iii ) The articles in duplicate , together with the docu . 

firm of such chartered accountants , as the case may be. 
mentary evidence showing that the conditions laid down 
in regulation 32 rc satisfied shall be sent to the Secretary (3 ) In the case referred to in the proviso to sub-regula 
for registration so as to reach him within ninely days of the toll (1 ) or sub -regulation ( 2 ), fresh articles shall be exccut 
comincncement of the period of the articles or within ed and the provisions of regulation 31 shall apply inutatis 
thirty days of the execution of the articles, whichever is mutandis , except that no fee shall be payable by the articl 
earlier . 

ed clerk . 
(2 ) The articles shall be accompanied by a statement 

11. Terinination or assignment of articles (1) Articles 
in the appropriatc Foim giving particulars about the name, may, by agreement between the articled clerk and his emp 
the father > name, the residence, the date of birth and the loyer , be terminated or assigned to another employer . 
cducational qualifications of the articled clerk . 

(2) An assignment under sub -regulation (1) shall be in 
(3 ) The articles shall be stamped and shall be accom - the appropriate Form . 
panied by a fee of thirty iupces. 

(3 ) The provisions of regulation 34 shall apply mutatis 
( 1 ) The Council my, after giving an opportunity to a mutandis except that no fee shall be payable by the 
clerk of being hcard , refuse to register his dilicles. " articled clerk . 

35 . Register of articled clerks - A registc , of articled 42 . Supplementary articles (1) An articled clerk who 
clerks shall be maintained by the Council . 

has taken leave in excess of the period allowed under regu 

lation 43 shall be required to serve for a period equivalent 
36 . Arlicled clerk not to engage in any other occupa 

to the excess leave taken , in continuation of the articles, 
tion - Without the previous permission of the Council, no 

and for this purpose , execute a supplementary deed of 
articled clerk shall, during the period of his service as an 

articles in the appropriate Form . 
articled clerk , take any other course of study or training , 
whether academic or professional, or engage in any busi 

(2 ) The supplementary deed shall be stamped and shall 

be sent to the office of the Institute so as to reach within 
ness or occupation . 

Sitty days of the expiry of the old articles. 
87 . Cancellation of articles - ( 1) On proof of misconduct 

(8 ) No fee shall be charged for the registration of the 
or breach of regulation 36 or breach of any of the cove 
nanty contained in the articles, the Council may cancel the 

supplementary articles. 
registration of the articles or extend the period of the 43. Leave to an articled clerk — - (1 ) An articled clerk shall 
articles, or direct that any period already served under eurn leave at the rate of one sixth of the period for which 
such articles shall not be reckond as service for the pur- he has served . 
pose of the period of practical training specified in ( 2 ) An articled clerk , who has served as an audit clerk 
Schedule B . 

immediately before the commencement of his articles , 
(2 ) The Clerk , the registration of whose articles has been 

shall , in addition to the leave earned under this regulation , 
cancelled under this regulation , shall not, except with the 

be entitled to lcayc cqual to one-half of the accumulated 
permission of the Council, be retained or taken as an 

leave earned by him as an audit clerk , subject to a maxi 
articled clerk by any member. 

mum of two months. 

(3 ) Leave duc shall ordinarily be granted if reasonable 
38 . Complaint against the employer — (1 ) Where an 

notice has been given to the employer by the articled 
articled clerk makes a complaint against his cniployer to cart 
the Council , the Council may cause an investigation to be 
made and take such action as it may consider expedient. 

(4 ) Leave not earned and due may be granted by the 

employer subject to the condition that the total leave lo 
( 2 ) The President may, pending an investigation of the be taken by the articled clerk shall not exceed one-sixth 
complaint, cither terminato or suspend the articles and of the total period of his articles together with leave due 
allow the articled clerk to be accepted as an additional under sub -regulation ( 2 ) 
articled clerk by a member, notwithstanding anything con 

(5 ) For the purpose of preparing for an examination of 
tained in regulation 29. 

the Institute , the articled clerk shall be granted by the 
39 . Fresh Articles — ( 1 (a ) Where the cmployer has cinployer leave for two months or to thc extent due, which 
ceased 10 practise ; or 

ever is less , provided an application for the leave has been 

inade at least fifteen days in advance . 
(b ) where the employer s name has been removed from 
the Register ; or 

(6 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -regula 

tion (5 ), the employer may grant to the articled clerk leave 
(c ) where the employer is dead ; or 

for more than two months, iſ such lcave is due to him . 
( d ) where the articles are tcrminated under sub -regula - 44. Working hours for an articled clerk — The working 
tion (1) of regulation 4 ); or 

hours of an articled clerk shall , subject to a maximum of 
(c ) for any ther valid rcason , an articled clerk is not thirty five working hours in a week , be regulated by the 
able to complete the tern of the articles, he may, with employer . 
the permission of the President, enter into fresh articles 45. Report to the Council _ An employer shall on 
for the remainder of the term of service with another 

completion , discontinuance or termination of the service 
member entitled to engage and train articled clerks. 

of an articled clerk forthwith issue to the articled clerk a 
(2 ) Such fresh articles shall be executed in the appro 

certificate in the appropriate Form , in respect of the service 

rendered under him and forward a copy thereof to the 
priate Form . 

Council. 
(3 ) The provisions of regulation 34 shall apply mutatis 
mutandis except that no fee shall be payable by the 

46 . Certificate of service on the death of employer - - 
articled clerk . 

Where the employer dies, his legal representative or where 

at the time of his death , he was carrying on practice with 
40 . Change of status of employer - ( 1) Where a salaried another member, the surviving partner shall issue to the 
employee of a chartered accountant in practice or of a articled clerk a certificate in the appropriate Form , in res 
firm of such chartered accountants sets up practice in - pect of the service rendered and forward a copy thereof to 
dependently , his articled clerk shall remain with him from the Council. 
the date of setting up practice independently : 

47 . Audit clerks - - (1 ) A member in continuous praclice 
Provided that the President may, in an appropriate case , for a period of not less than three years (including prac . 
direct that the articled clerk shall serve the chartered ac- tice before the commencement of the Act ) entitled to 
countant in practice or the firm of such chartered ac- employ two audit clerks for the purpose of registration 
countants, as the case may be. 

with the Institute : 


PART III - SEC . 41 

315 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 

- - - 
Provided that if he has been ill continuous piactice for 48 Register or audit clerks - A register of audit cluks 
110t less than fifteen years ( including practicc before the shall be maintained by the Council 
commencement of the Act) or has been in continuous 

19 . Registration of service - ( l ) The employer shall send 
practice as a fellow for not less than ten years, he may 

to the Council for icgistration , particulars about the name 
employ one moie audit clerk : 

and address of thc cmployer , the name, the father s name, 
Provided further that the Council may , subject to such the residence, the date of birth and the educational quali 
terms and conditions as it may deeui fit , relax in any case ficationis of the dudit clerk serving under him , in the 
any of the provisions of this regulation . 

appropriate forn , with the date of commencement of such 

service, so as to icach the Secretary within thirty days from 
Fxplanation _ For the purpose of this regulation , a 

the date of the commencement of the audit service or the 
member in practice means a member who is, in the opinion 

date of the expiry of the Preliminary Service , whichever is 
of the Council, mainly engaged in practice which is suit 

later 
able for training an audit clerk for the profession of al 
countancy 

(2 ) Ihe Council may, after giving an opportunity to a 
(2 ) A inember in practice before employing a person for clerk of being heaid , refuse to register his service 
service as an audit clerk shall satisfy himselt that such ( 3 ) For the purpose of practical training specificd in 
person 

Schdule B , service rendered as an audit clerk shall be 
(a ) 18 not less than sixteen years of age on the date counted 

of the commencement of service as an audit clerk , (a ) where the audit clerk has been registered within 
and 

the time prescribed by sub iegulation (1 ), from 

the date of the commencement of service. 
either has passed the Preliminary Fxamination , oi 
(b ) 

the Intermediate Examination under these Regu (b ) in any other case , from a dute one hundred and 
lations or is a graduate or has passed the National 

fifty days prior to the date of receipt in the office 
Diploma in Commerce Examination held by the 

of the Institute of application for registration of 
All India Council for Technical Education , or 

the audit clerk undui subiegulation ( 1 ). 
has passed the Govcrumcnt Diploma in Account 

50 Audit clerk nol lo engage in any other occupalion 
ancy Examination or an examination recognised 

Without the previous permission of the Council , 110 audit 
as equivalent thereto by the rules for the award 

clerk shall, during the perid of his service , take any other 
of the Government Diploma in Accountancy : 

course of study or training , whethici academic o profes 
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall sional, or engage in any business or occupation 
prevent him from employing as an audit clerk d person 

51 Report to the Council - An employer shall, on com 
who had entered into articles or dudit service previous 10 

pletion , discontinuance, or teiinination of the scrvice of 
the 1st day of July 195fi 

an audit clerk issue to the audit clerk a certificate in the 
(3 ) (1) A member entitled to employ audit clerks shall, appropriatc Forin in respect of the service rendered under 
before sending the particulars foi regiuation as prescribe him and forward a copy thereof to the Council 
ed in regulation 19, require a person who is to be employed 

52 Certificate of service on the death of employer - - 
as an audit clerk , to serve him for a period of one hundred 

Where the employei dies, his legal representative , or 
and twenty days , hereinafter referred to as Preliminary 

mildly where , at the time of his death , he was carrying on prac 
Service . 

tice with another member, the surviving partner shall 
(11 ) Registration of such Pieliminary Service shall bc issue to thic articled clerk a certificate in the appropriate 
made with the Council within a period of ten days from Foim , in respect of the scrvice rendered and forward a 
the date of the commencement of such service 

copy thercof to the Council 
( iii ) If on completion of such service , the member is 53 Registralion fee - The audit clerk shall, before his 
satisfied that the person is sutable for the profession , the name is cntered in the register of audit clerks, remit to the 
date of the commencement of audit service shall be taken Council a registration fec of twenty rupees . 
to be from the date of thc commencement of the Prelımı- Provided that no fresh registration fee shall be payable 
nary Service . 

(a ) Where on the termination of audit service , the 
(4 ) Nothing contained in sub regulations (2) and (3 ) 

audit clerk joins another employer in the same 
shall prevent a member from employing as an audit clerk , 

town on the same or the following day , or joins 
a person whose name is already entered in the register of 

an employer und dillerent town within seven 
audit clerks or articled clerks 

days from the date of such termination and the 
(5 ) (1) An audit clerk shall register himself as a student 

new employer sends to the Council the particulars 

as required by sub -regulation ( 1) of regulation 49 
of the coaching organisation set up under the aegis of the 
Institute 

within thirty days from the date of such termina 

tion ; or 
( 11 ) The audit clerk shall submit by registered post 
through his employer , an applicatfon in the approved 

where on the termination of the audit Service 
form with the requisito fce within ten days from the date 

consequent on the death or the removal from the 
of the commencement of audit service or date of the expiry 

Register of the name of his employer for any 
of the Preliminary Service , whichever is later , for registid 

reason whatsoever or conscquent on his employer 
tion as a student of the coaching organisation . 

being suspended from practice , the audit clerk 

joins another employer and gets his audit service 
( iii ) If the application for registration as a student of 

with his new emplovei registered with the Coun 
the said coaching organisation is not submitted within the 

cil within thuty days from the date of temi 
time specified , the period of servicc upto a date ten days 

nation of scrvice with the previous cinploycı, 
prior to the date when he submits it for such registration , 

Provided further the President may iemit the registra 
shall not be counted for the purpose of these regulations 

tion fee in a case where he is watisfied that there were 
(6 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub regula - reasonable grounds for the termination report not being 
tion (5 ), the Fxamination Committee may relax its pro - sent within the prescribed time oi not being sent at all 
visions in the case of a person who , having entered into 

34 Loave lo audit clerk 
4 Love Loudit cerk _ _ l An audi 

( 1) An audit clerk shall earn 
audit service before the 1st day of January 1957 , has 1 

leave at the rate of one-sixth of the period for which he has 
registered himself as a student of the said coaching organi- crveda 
sation . 

(2 ) An audit clerk who has served as an articled clerk 
Nothing contained in sub regulation ( ) shall apply immediately before the commencement of his audit service 
to a clerk who has passed the Government Diploma in 

shall , in addition to the leave earried under this regulation , 

v 
Accountancy Examination or an examination recognised 

be entitled to leave earned hy hun as an di ticled clerk , sub 
els equivalent therсto by the rules for the award of the 

jcct to a maximum of two montlis 
Government Diploma in Accountancy , or who had entered 
into articles or judit services before the 1st day of July ( 3 ) Leave due shall ordinrıly be granted if reasonable 
1956 . 

notice has been given to the employer by the audit clerk 


(b ) w 


316 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[ Part III - SEO. 4 


e 


- - - 


B . 


( 1 ) Leave not carned and due may be granted by the (2 ) A member whose name stands removed from the 
eurployer subject to the coudition that the total lcavc to Register on the date on which he is to cast his vote shall 
bc taken by the audit clerk shull not exceed one-sixth of not be considered eligible to vote at the election notwith 
the total period of his service together with leave due standing the fact that his name has been published in the 
under sub - regulation (2). 

list of voters . 
55 . Cancellation of audit scrvico - (1) On proof of mis - 60 . Qualifications of members to stand for election - A 
conduct or breach of regulation 50 , the Council inay, can - fellow whose name is included in the list of voters publish 
cel the registration of the audit service , or extend the ed under sub -regulation ( 1) of regulation 62 and who is 
pcriod of the audit service or direct that any period of eligible to votc at the election shall be eligible to stand 
past audit service shall not be reckoned as such service for election to the Council from the regional constituency 
for the purposes of practical training speciſied in Schedule in which his name is included . 

61 . Number of members to be elected — The number of 
(2 ) The clerk whose audit scrvice has been cancelled members to be clected from each regional constituency 
under this regulation , shall not , except with the permission shall be one member for evcry two hundred and fifty 
of the Council, be retained or taken as an audit clerk by members in the constituency, fractions exceeding half 
a member. 

being counted as one and fractions equivalent to or less 
56 . Complaint against the employer — ( 1) Where an than half being omitted . 
audit clerk makes a complaint against his employer to the Provided that cach constituency shall have at least one 
Council, the Couficil may cause an investigation to be member elected therefrom to the Council. 
made and take such action as it may consider expedient. 

62 . List of volers ( 1 ) At least three months before the 
(2 ) T he President may, pending an investigation of the 

date or dates of polling fixed for an election , the Council 
complaint, cither terminate or suspend the audit service . 

sliall publish a list of members eligible to vote constitu 
CHAPTER V 

encywise showing inter -alia distinctly and separately 
STUDENTS ASSOCIATION 

(i) whether the voter is an associate or a fellow ; 
57 . Constitulion of students associations - ( 1) The ( ii ) the polling booth to which the voter is attached 
Council may constitute a students association for cach of 

and in which he may cxercise his franchise ; and 
thc regional constituencies as may from time to time be (iii ) the location of the polling booth . 
specificd by the Central Government under clause (a ) of 

Explanation – The address of a member published in 
sub - section (1 ) of section 9. 

the list of voters shall be ſinal for determining the manner 
( 2 ) A students association shall be constituted in such in which he shall be entitled to cast his vote or the consti 
manner and shall exercise such functions as may be speci- tuency or the polling booth to which he shall belong for 
fied by thc Council by notification in the Gazette of the purposes of casting his vote : 
India . 

Provided that in a city where there is more than one 
( 8 ) A students association shall function subjcct to the polling booth , the Secretary may in his discretion , permit 
control, supervision and direction of the Council cxcrcised a ineinber attached to a booth to vote at another booth , 
through the respective Regional Council and shall be on an application made in this behalf stating the reasons 
managed by a managing comm ttee of fiftecii members of why he wants to vote at the other booth on or before the 
which three members shall be nominated by the Regional 15th day of June of the year in which the election is to be 
Council 

held . 
(4 ) The Chairman shall be elected by the nanaging (2 ) The list of members shall be put on the notice 
committee . 

board of the Council and the notice boards of the Regional 
(5 ) The Council may establish a branch of a students Councils . 
association and nuy issue such directions as it may consider 

( 3 ) Thc list shall be available on payment of such price 
expedient, in regard to the duties and ſunctions of the as 

ons of the as may be fixed by the Council. 
branch . 
(6 ) Any person who enters into articles or audit service , 

(4 ) The Council shall notify in the Gazette of India and 
on or after 1st day of April 1957 shall become a member 

the Institute s journal the fact that such list is available 
of the students association of his region and shall remit, 
for the benefit of his association , a suin of five rupecs along (5 ) At least 3 months before the date or dates of polling 
with his application for registration of his articles or audit fixed for an election , the Council shall publish in the 
service , as the case may be . 

Gazette of India a notice stating the number of members 
(7 ) The Council may, from time to time, inake financial 

me to time, make financial to be elected and calling for nominations of candidates 
grants to the students associations. 

for election by a specified date which shall not be less than 

14 days from the date of the publication of the notice . 
CHAPTER VI 

63 . Nominations -- The nomination of a candidate shall 
ELECTIONS 

be in the appropriate Form duly signed by the candidate 
58 . Dates of election — The following dates relating to 

and by the proposer and the seconder both of whom shall 
the election of members to the Council, namely the last 

be persons entitled to vote in the election and shall be 
date for the receipt of nominations, the last date for the 

forwarded by registered post to the Secretary by name so 
withdrawal of nominations, the date or dates of polling , 

as to reach him on or before the specified date. 
the date for receipt of voting papers by post , the date or 64 . Fee for election ( 1) A candidate for election shall 
dates for the counting of votes and the date for the decla - pay in all a fee of two hundred rupees irrespective of the 
ration of the result, shall be decided by the Council and number of nominations. 
notified by it in the Gazette of India arleast three months 

( 2 ) A candidate whose nomination is held to be invalid 
before such dates . 

shall be entitled , on an application made by him in this 
59 . Members cligible to vole (1 ) A member shall be cn - behalf, to the reſund in full of the fee . 
titled to vote in an clcction to the Council from the 65 . Withdraual of candidature - (1) A candidate may 
regional constituency within whose territorial jurisdiction withdraw his candidature by notice in writing subscribed 
his professional address falls on a date imincdiately six by him and delivered to the Secretary before 9 .00 P . M . on 
months prior to the date on which the list of members the seventh day following the last date fixed for the receipt 
eligible to vote in the election is published provided his of nominations. 
name has been borne on the Register continuously for a 
pcriod of not less than six months immediately prior to 

(2 ) A candidate who has withdrawn his candidature 
the date of the publication of the list and he is not in 

shall be incompetent to cancel his withdrawal, 
arrears in respect of the annual membership fec and the (3 ) The withdrawal of candidature shall be intimated 
Regional Council fcc on the 30th June of the year in by the Secretary to the other candidates standing for elec 
which the election is to be conducted . 

tion from the same constituency , 


PART III - SEO. 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


317 


(4 ) A candidate who has withdrawn his candidature in to be elected and the Secretary shall declarc all such cand 
accordance with sub -regulation ( 1) shall be cntitled , on an dates duly elected . 
application made by him in this behalf, to the refund in 
full of the fee paid by him under sub -regulation (1) of 

(2 ) Where the number of such candidates from the col 
regulation 64 . 

stituency is less than the number of members to be electe 

from that constituency , the Secretary shall commence fres 
66 . Scruliny of nominations (1) The Secretary shall proceedings for the election of the remaining members t 
scrutinize the nomination papers of all the candidates, 

be clected from that constituency . 
except those whose candidature has bcen withdrawn under 
sub -section (1 ) of regulation 65 and shall endorse on cach 71. Admissible number of voles to a voter — (1) A vote 
nomination paper his decision whether he accepts or re- shall have one vote only . 
jects the nomination . 

( 2) The voter in order to cast his vote : 
( 2 ) The Secretary shall record a brief statement of his 
reasons if he rejects a nomination . 

(a ) shall place on his ballot paper the ligure 1 in th 

square opposite the name of the candidate fo 
(3) The Sccretary shall refuse or reject a noinination if 

whom he desires to vote ; and 
he is satisfied : - 

(b ) may, in addition , place on his ballot paper th . 
(i) that the candidate was ineligible to stand for 

figure 2 , or the figures 2 and 3 , or 2 , 3 , and 1 and 
clcction ; or 

so on , in the squares opposite the names of othe 
( ii) that the proposer or the seconder was not quali 

candidates in the order of his preference. 
fied to subscribe to the nomination of the candi 

72. Mode of election — The election shall be by poll and 
date in the appropriate Form ; or 

a voter shall cast his vote personally in the booth provided 
(iii ) that the signature of the candidate or of the pro - for the purpose cxcept where he is allowed to cast his vot 

poser or the seconder is not genuine or has been by post , as hereinafter provided . 
obtained by force or fraud ; or 

73 . Polling booths — The Secrctary shall set up suci 
(iv) that the candidate or the proposer or the seconder number of polling booths and at such places as he deem 

is in arrears in respect of the annual membership necessary : 
fec and the Regional Council fee on the 1st day 
of May of the year in which the clection is to be Provided that , in an area covered by a radius of ter 
held ; or 

milcs froin each booth , there shall not be less than 
( v ) that there has been a failure to comply with the 

10 voters according to their professional addresses 

as given in the list of members eligible to vote . 
provisions of regulations 63 and 64 . 
Explanalion – The rejection of thic nomination of a 

74 . Polling officer — ( 1) The Secretary shall appoint a 
candidate by reason of any irrcgularity in respect of that 

polling officer for each polling booth and may also appoint 
nomination is no bar to the acceptance of another nomi 

such other persons as he may deem necessary to assist the 
nation which is valid in respect of the same candidato . 

polling booth . 

(2 ) The polling officer shall , in addition to performing 
67 . Appeal against rejection of a nomination (1 ) A 
candidate whose noinination has been refused oi rejected 

the duties imposed upon hiin by these Regulations, be in 
by the Secretary shall have a right of appeal against tlie 

general charge of all arrangements at the polling booth and 
decision of the Secretary . 

way issue orders as to the manner in which persons shall 

be admitted to the polling booth and generally for the pre 
(2 ) An appeal shall be presented to the Council within seivation of peace and order at or in the vicinity of the 
ten days of the date on which such refusal or rejection is pooling booth . 
communicated to him and the same shall be heard by a 75 Serrel chamber ( 1 ) There shall be a secret chamber 
Committee appointed by the Council in this behalf. or chambeis in each polling booth . 

( 3 ) The Comnittee shall consist of any threc persons : 
Piovided that a candidate for the election shall not bc , 

(2 ) The chamber shall be so arranged that no person 
a member of the Committec . 

may be able to see how a voter has recorded his vote. 
(4 ) The Committee shall have the power to 

76 . Ballot paper — The ballot paper shall contain a list 

inspect 
documents, examine witnesses , record 

of the candidates validly nominated for a constitucncy and 

evidence , receive shall bear the seal of the Council . 
affidavits, grant adjournments, and shall have such other 
powers as may be necessary for the efficient and due pro 77. Presence of the candidales and their authorised re 
formance of its duties. 

presenlalives at the polling booths— (1 ) A candidate for 
(5 ) The decision of the Committee shall be linal. 

clection from a constituency shall be entitled to be present 
68 . Preparalon ol lists of vald nominations - (1) On 

at the polling hooths in that constituency . 
completion of the scrutiny of the nominations, the Secre 

( 2 ) He may appoint members as his authorised repre 
tary shall lorthwith prepare a list of valid nominations for sentatives who shall be entitled to be present on his behalf 
cach constituency and cause I copy of the list to be sent at the polling booths in that constituency : 
by registered post to each candidate from that constituency 
whose noinination has been accepted as valid , 

Huency Provided that no more than one authorised representa 

tive shall be present at a tinic al cach polling booth . 
(2 ) The list shall contain full names in alphabetical 
order and the address of the validity nominated candi 

( 3) No appointment of an authorised representative 
dates for cach constituency . 

sball be valid unless the candidate has sent to the Secre 

tary the particulars of the authorised representative by 
" anon membership of a candidate registered post so as to reach him at least thirty days before 
The death or ( cssation of membership of a candidate who the date ſixed for the poll. 
has been validly nominated , after the date fixed for the 
withdrawal of candidature , shioll not stay the election pro 

(1 ) For the purposes of sub -regulation (3 ), the particu 
cccdings. 

lars shall inclucle the full name, the membership fumber 

and the address of the authorised representative and the 
70 . Candidatos deemed to be elected u their mumber is nunber of the polling hooth at which he is authorised to 
equal to or less than the number of inembers to be elected he present. 
- - ( 1) Where the number of candidates validly nominated 
from any constituency is equal to or less than the nuinber 

78 . l oting to be in person and not by proxy - - Voting 
of members to be elected from that constituency or where 

shall be by ballot and a voter desiring to record his vote, 
the number of candidates from any constituency becomes 

shall do so in person and not by proxy. 
equal to or less than the number of members to be clect . 79 . 4bbointment of assistants - - The polling ouncer may 
cd from that constituency by reason of 

Y . Dy reason of the death 

the death or 

or employ at the polling booth such persons as he thinks ſit 

employ at the polling 
cessation of membership of one or inore candidates before 1o assist himn in identifying the voters or for any other 
the date fixed for polling, such candidates shall be deemed purpose . 


318 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[PART III - Sbo. 4 


- 


- 


80 . Identification of voters (1) At any time before a sub -regulation ( 1), and no voter shall be admitted thereto 
ballot paper is delivered to a voter , the polling officer may , after that hour : 
of his own accord , if he has reason to doubt the identity 

Provided that any voler present in the polling booth 
of the voter or his right to vote at the polling booth , and 

before iç is closed , shall be entitled to have his vote re 
shall, if so required by a candidate or his authorised re 

corded : 
presentative , put to the voter such questions as he may 
deem necessary with a view to establish the identity of that 

Provided further that where the number of voters en 
voter 

titled to vote at any polling booth exceeds 200 , the pulling 

booth shall be kept open for two consecutive days, during 
(2 ) Every voter shall be required to sign the marked copy 

the same timings, as mentioned in sub- regulation (1). 
of the list of members eligible to vote and his signatwe 
shall be verified by the polling officer with the specimen 

(7 ) The polling officer shall, as soon as practicable after 

the close of the poll or after its close on each day, iſ the 
signature provided by the Secretary. 

polling is for more than one day , in the presence of any 
(3 ) If the polling officer is not satisfied as to the identity 

candidates or their authorised repicscntatives who may be 
of the person claiming to be a voter, he may reſuse to 

prescit, scal the ballot box with his own seal and the scals 
allow such persons to vote in the election . 

of such candidates or authorised representatives as inay 
81. Record to be kept by the polling officer — The polling desire to uffix their seals thercon .. 
officer shall , at the time of delivery of the ballot paper , 

(8 ) The polling office shall also make up into separate 
place against the nainc of the voter in the list of incibers 

packets : 
eligible to vote , a mark to denote that that volet lus re 
- ceived a ballot paper, 

(i) the unused ballot papers; 

( ii ) the returned ballot papeis ; 
Explanulion - In deciding the night of a person to obtain 
a ballot paper , the polling officer shall overlook any clerical 

(iii) the marked copy of the list of members eligible 
or printing error, provided that he is satisfied that such 

to vote ; and 
person is identical with the voter whose name appeary in (iv) any other paper directed by the Secretary to be 
the list of voters . 

kept in a sealed cover , and seal each such packet 
82 . Manner of recording of votes after receipt of ballot 

with his own seal and the seals of such cundulates 
paper - -On receiving the ballot paper, the voter shall forth 

or authorised representatives as may desire to affix 

their seals thereon . Ile shall arrange for the safe 
with proceed into thc secret chamber set apart for the 
purpose and shall record his vote on the ballot paper in 

custody of the ballot box and such packets. 
the manner speciſed in regulation 71. He shall thereafter (9) Where the polling is arranged to take place for more 
fold the ballot paper ; leave the secret chamber and insert than one day, just before the polling booth is opened to 
the ballot paper in the ballot box provided for the purpose , the voters on the following day, the polling officer shali , 
in the presence of the polling officer. 

in the presence of any candidates or their authorised ne 
88. Ballot box __ The ballot box shall be so constructed presentatives who may be present, remove the seal or seals 
that a bullot per can be inserted thercinto during the affixed in accordance with sub - regulation ( 7 ) and (8 ), after 
poll but cannot be withdrawn therefrom , without the box the scals are examined by him and by the candidates or 
being unlocked or the scals being broken , 

authorised representatives, ( or use during the course of 

that day. 
84 . Return of ballot paper by a voter — (1 ) Where a 
voter, alter obtaining a ballot paper , chooses not to vote , 

( 10 ) The ballot box and packets , icfcrred to earlier shall 
he shall return the bullot paper to the pollins officer , and be accompanied by an account of ballot papers showing the 
the ballot paper so returned , shall then he marked as " can 

total number of ballot papers received , issued and un 
celled --- etuincd " and kept in a separate envelope set apart 

issued , returned , as also the number of ballot papers which 
for the purpose and a record shall be kept by the polling 

should be found in the ballot box and packets . This ac 
officer of all such ballot papers. 

count shall be forwarded to the Secretary , 
( 2 ) Where any ballot paper, which was delivered to a 86 . Transport of ballot boxes ctc. and their custoily 
voter , is found , with or without any writing thereon , in the ( 1) The Secretary and the polling officers shall nake ade 
secret chamber , at the end of the day, when the polling quite an angements for the safe custody of the ballot boxes 
officer inspects it , it shall be dealt with in accordance with and other papers and for the saſe transport to the lead 
the provisions of sub - regulation ( 1 ), as if it had been 1c - quatters of the Institute of all the packets or boxes and 
turned to the polling officer , 

other papers icferred to in regulation 85 . 
85 . Procedure al the polling booth — (1 ) A polling booth ( 2 ) The Secretary shall be responsible for the safe 
shall be kept open on the day or days appointed for record - custody of thic articles referred to in sub -regulation ( 1) , 
ing of votes from 8 -30 a.m . to 6 -30 p .m . 

until the commencement of the counting of votcs, 
( 2 ) If the polling at any polling booth cannot take place 87. l oting by members employed on duty at polling 
on the day or days appointed for recording of votes or is hoolhve The polling ollicer , the persons appointed by the 
interrupted or obstructed by any sufficient causc or the Secretary to assist the polling officer , or the authorised re 
ballot box used at the booth is tannpcred with or is acci- presentatives, referred to in regulation 77 , who are voters 
dently or deliberately destroyed , lost or damaged , the Secre 

for any constituency and who , by season of their being on 
tary or the polling officer , as the case may be, may adjourn 

duty at a polling booth , are unable to be present and to 

duty at a polling booth are unable 
the polling to a subsequent date or the Secretary pay de 

vole at the polling booth where they are entitled to vote , 
clare the polling at the booth void and order a fresh may send , so as to reach the Secretary at least thirty dys 
polling . 

before the date fixed for the poll at that constituency , an 
(3 ) If a polling is adjourncd or declared void under sub 

application for permission to vote at the polling booth 
regulation (2 ), the Secretary shall, as soon as possible , ap 

where they may be on duty . If the Secretary is satisfied that 
point the place where the polling shall be subscquently con 

the application is wol founded , hic inay , notwithstanding 
ducted and the time, date or dates, as the case may be, for 

anything contained hereinbcſore, permit the voter to vote 
the said polling : 

at the polling booth where he may be on duty to act as 

the polling officer or to assist the polling officcy or as autho 
(4 ) The place, date or dates and the time of polling , riscd representative of a candidate : 
appointed under sub -regulation (3 ), shall bc notified in 
dividually to all the voters affected as well as in the Gazette 

Provided that such permission shall not be granted to 

more than one representative of a candidate in iespect of 
of India , 

each polling booth , if he is specifically noninated for the 
(5 ) The Secretary shall not proceed to count the votes purpose by the candidate hinisclf. 
ist at the election until the polling at all the polling 88 . Eligibility to vote by post — ( 1 ) A member vhose name 
booths in that constituency has been completed . 

is included in the list of voters and whose name is not 
(6 ) The polling officer shall close the polling booth at g attached to any polling hooth , and a nieinber who is 10 
the end of the day, or if the polling is for more than one siding outside India , sholl, notwithstanding anything con . 
day, at the end of each day, at the hour appointed under tained in this Chapter , be permitted to vote by post, 


date ; 


Part fff - SEợ. 4 THE CAŽEITE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1969 

319 
- - - 

( 2) A mernher who is entitled to vote at a polling booth (b ) the name of the candidate next in order of prc 
may be permitted , at the discretion of the Secretary , to vote 

ference , whether continuing or not , is marked by 
by post ( 1) if by reason of thcrc being a permanent change 

a figure not following consecutively after som 
in huis address Trom the address published m the list of 

other figures on the ballot paper or by two or more 
voters to another village , town or city beyond a radius of 

figures; 
ten miles from the polling booth , he is unable to cxcrcise 
his voto at the polling booth allotted to him or (b ) if he is 

" original vole " in regard to any candidate mean 
actually residing beyond a radius of ten miles from the 

a vote derived from a ballot paper on which a first 
polling booth allotted to him 

preference is recordçd for such candidate ; 

( vi) “ transferred vote in regard to any candidato 
(3 ) An application , duly venlied , for permission to vote 

means a vote , the value ou part of the value oi 
by post shall be sent to the Secretary so as to reach him by 

which is credited to such candidate and which i. 
the 30th day of June of the year in which the election is 

derived from a ballot paper on which a second on 
to be held and an application received in this behalt after 

subsequent preference is recorded for such candı 
the said date shall not be cansidered 
(4 ) Any misuse of this concession , oi any misstaleincnt or 

( vii) " surplus" means the number by which the value 
false verilication in this behalf sliall rendu thư member 

of the votes of any candidate , original or lians 
liable for disciplinary action under regulation 101 . 

ferred , exceeds the quota 
(5 ) A member who has been permitted to vote by post 
shall record his votc betoic a Magistrate , a Galictted Officer , 

94 Appointment of time and date for the counting or 
a Justice of the peace or a Notary Public , in a room wlerc 

yolcs — The Secretary shall appoint a date or dates and 
no out clse shall be pernilled to be present 

limc for each such date , for the counting of votes at th 

Headquarters of the Institute and shall also give notice oi 
89 Secrelary to send ballot papers by post - At least 21 

such date or dates and time in writing to all the candi 
days before the date appointed for the counting of votes, dosti 
the Secretary shall send by registered post to the voters per 
mitted to vote by post, the ballot paper, together with a 95 Counting of votes ( 1 ) On the date and at the time 
letter explaining the manner in which the vote shall be re and place , appointed under regulation 94 , the Secretary 
corded thereon , and specifying the date and hour by which shall, for the purpose of counting of votes in respect of 7 
1t shall reach the Scorctary 

constituency 
90 Ballot papers to be relurned after recording roles 

(a ) open the covers containing the postal ballon 
thereon - A voler on ieceiving his ballot paper sent under 

papers received by him under regulation 90 , and 
iegulation 89, shall , il lie desires to vote , record his vote 

shall take out the ballot papers from each cover 
thereon in the manner specilied in rcgulation 71, and send 

and shall record the number thereof in a state 
it to thc Secretary so as to leach him before the time speci 

ment , and shall make a separate packet of those 
fied in this behalf, 

ballot papers ; 
91 Issue of undelivered and fresh ballot papers — Wherc 

allow the candidates and their authoriscd repre 
a ballot paper and other connected papeis sent luy post 

sentatives, present at the counting, an oppoitu 
under regulation 89 arc lost or damaged in transit or for 

nity to inspect the ballot boxes and packets re 
any reson returned undclivered , the Secretary may reissue 

ceived from the polling officers and their seals for 
them by registered post or deliver them or cause them to 
be delivered to thic voter on his applying foi the suic, 

satisfying themselves that they arc in order , and 
if he is satisfied with the casons for such loss , damage or 

( ) proceed as follows: -- - 
return 

(1) If he is satished that the ballot boxes anı 
92 Grounds for declaring ballot papers inzalin , A 

packets which have been received are in order 
ballot paper shall be invalid 

he shall take up the counting of the ballon 

papers contained in the ballot box . 
(a ) la voter signs his name or writes any word or 
figure upon 11 or makes any mark upon 11 by 

(11) If he finds that any of the ballot boxes has been 
which the ballot paper becomes recognisable or by 

tampered with , he shall not count the ballo 
which the voter can be identified ; or 

papers contained in such box for the purpose 

of clection . (He shall , however , kecp a record 
(b ) if it does not bear the scal of the Council ; or 

of such ballot papers for the purpose of electior 
(c ) iſ the figure 1 18 not marked on il, or 

petitions, if any ). 
(d ) If the figure 1 18 set opposite the name of more 

(11) Thc ballot boxes found to bc in order shall b 
than one candidate , or 

opened and the ballot papers shall be taken ou 
(c ) if the figure 1 and some other figurc arc put op 

from them and shall be counted and the numbe 
posite the name of the same candidate , or 

thereof recorded in a statement. To these shal 
(f) if it is unmarked or void for uncertainty , or 

be added the postal ballot papers. 
if any papci, other than the forwarding letter, is ( iv) The ballot popeis shall be examined and an 
sent with it . 

invalid ballot papers shall be rejected . 
93 Definilions — In the following regulations, unless (v ) He shall divide the remaining ballot papers into 
there is anything repugnant in the subject on context 

parcels according to the first preferences record 
(i) " continuing candidate" mcans any candidate not 

ed for each candidate . 
elected and not excluded from the poll at any 

(vi) He shall then count the number of papers in 
given time; 

each parcel. 
( 11) " first preference " means thc figurc 1 , " second 

(2) In complying with the sub -regulations hereinafter cr 
prcference " means the Ggure 2 , and " third prcſer 

acted , the Secretary shall 
ence " means thc figure 3 set opposite the name of 
any candidate, and so on , 

(a) disregard all fractions, 
( iii ) " unexhausted paper" means a ballot paper on (b ) ignorc all preferences recorded for candidato 
which a further preference is recorded for a con 

already elected or excluded from the poll, 
tinuing candidate; 

(3) For the purpose of facilitating the processes specife 
(iv ) " exhausted paper " means a ballot paper on w the sub-regulations hercinafter enacted , each valid pape 

which no further profuience is recorded for a shall be deemed to be of the value of one hundred 
continuing candidate : 

(4 ) The Secretary shall add together the values of th 
Provided that a paper shall also be deemed to be ex 

papers in all the parcels and divide the total by a numbe 
hausted in any case in which 

exceeding by one the number of vacancies to be filled and 
( a ) the namics of two or more candidates, whether the quoticnt incicased by one shall be the number sufficien 

continuing or not, are marked with the same figure to secure the return of a candidate (hereinafter called th 
and are next in order of preference ; oi 

quota ), 


320 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


(PART III - SEO . 4 


(5 ) If at any time, a number of candidates equal to the (v ) The process directed by this sub -regulation shall be 
umber of persons to be elected has obtained the quota , repeated on the successive exclusions, one after another , of 
ich candidates shall be lieated as elected , and 110 lurther the candidates lowest on the poll until the last vacancy is 
eps shall be taken . 

filled either by the election of a candidate with the quota 
(6 ) (i) Any candidate, the value of whose parcel, on the or as hereinafter provided . 
rst preferences being counted , is cqual to or greater than (9 ) If as the result of a transfer under this regulation , 
le quota , shall be declared elected . 

the value of the votes obtained by a candidate is tgual 
(ii) If the value of the papers in any such parcel is equal 

to or greater than the quota , the transfer then proceeding 
the quota , the papers shall be set aside as linally dealt 

allv dejt shall be conipleted , but no further papers shall be trans 
rith , 

fened to him . 
(iii) If the value of the papers in any such parcel is ( 10 ) (i) If after the completion of any transfer under 
reater than the quota , the surplus shall be transferred to this regulation , the vilue of the votes of any candidate 
le continuing candidates indicated on the votine papcrs shall be equal lo of greater than the quota , he shall be de 
s next in the order of the voters preference in the clared elcited . 
anner specified in the following sub -regulation . 

(ii) If the value of the votes of any such candidate shall 
(7) (i) If and when , as the result of any operation speci- be equal to the quota , the whole of the papers on which 
ed in these sub - regulations, a candidate has a surplus, that such voley are recorded shall be set aside as finally dealt 
irplus shall be transferred in accordance with the provi- with . 
ons of this sub-regulation . 

(iii) If the value of the votes of any such candidate shall 
(ii ) If inore than one candidate has a surplus, the largest bo greater than the quota , his surplus shall thereupon be 
irplus shall be dealt with first and the others in order of distributed in the manner hereinbcfore provided , before 
agnitude : 

the exclusion of any other candidate . 
Provided that every surplus arising on the first counting (11) ( i) When the number of continuing candidates is 
: votes. shall be dealt with before those arising on the reduced to the number of vacancics remaining unfilled . 
cond count and so on . 

the continuing candidates shall be declared elected , 
( iii) Where two or more surpluses are cqual, the Secre 

(ii) When only one vacancy remains unfilled and the 
iy shall decide, as hereinafter provided , which shall fust 

value of the voles of some one continuing candidato ex 

ceeds the total value of all thic votes of the other continu 
- dealt with . 

ing candidates , together with any surplus not transferred , 
(iv ) (a ) If the surplus of any candidate to be transferred 

that candidate shall be declared elected , 
ises from original votes only , the Secretary shall examine 
1 the papers in the parcel belonging to the candidate 

(iii) When only one vacancy remains unfilled and there 
hose surplus is to be transferred , and divide the un 

are only two continuing candidates, and those two candi 
hausted papers into sub -parcels according to the next pre 

dates have each the samic value of votes and no surplus re 
rences recorded thereon . He shall also make a separate 

mains capable of transfer , onc candidate shall be declared 
ub -parcel of the cxhausted papers . 

excluded under the next succeeding sub -regulation and the 

other declared elected , 
(b ) He shall ascertain the value of the papers in each 

(12) If , when there is more than onc surplus to distri 
b -parcel and of all the unexhausted papers. 

bute , two or more surpluscs are equal, or it at any time 
(c ) If the value of the unexhausted papers is equal to or it becomes necessary to exclude a candidate and two or 
ss than the surplus , he shall transfer all the unexhausted more candidates have the same values of votes and are 

pers at the value at which they were received by the lowest on the poll , regard shall be had to the original 
ndidate whose surplus is being transferred . 

votes of each candidate, and the candidate for whom 
(d ) If the value of the unexhausted papers is greater 

fcwest original votes are recorded shall have his surplus 
an the surplus, he shall transfer the sub - parcel of un 

first distributed, or shall be first excluded , as the case may 
hausted papers, and the value at which each paper shall 

be . If the values of their original votes are equal, the 
: transferred shall be ascertained by dividing the surplus 

Secretary shall decide by lot which candidate shall have 
y the total number of unexhausted papers. 

his surplus distributed or be excluded . 
(v ) If the surplus of any candidate to be transferred arises 

96 . Procedure in case of a tie – Whcrc after counting 
om transferred as well as original votes , the Secretary shall 

of votes, a tie is found to exist between any candidates 
examine all thc papers in the sub - parcel last qransferred 

and the addition of one vote shall entitle any of those 
the candidate , and divide the unexhausted papers into 

candidates to be declared elected , lots shall be drawn and 
ib -parcels according to the next preferences recorded 

the successful candidate shall be considered to have 
1ereon . He shall thereupon deal with the sub -parcels in 

received an additional vote and shall be declared to be 
e same manner as is provided in the casc of the sub 

duly elected . 
trcels referred to in clause (iv). 

97 . Appointment of scrutinisers — The Secretary shall 
(vi) The papers transferred to each candidate shall be 

oll he appoint two persons who are neither members of the 

appoint two per 
ided in the form of a sub -parcel to the papers already be 

Council nor candidates for election to act as scrutinisers 
nging to such candidate. 

of the voting papers and to assist him generally in count 

ing the votes. 
(vii) All papers in the parcel or sub -parcel of an elected 
ndidate not transferred under this sub -regulation shall be 

98 . Presence of candidates al the time of counting of 
t aside as finally dealt with . 

votes - A candidate for election shall be entitled to be pre 

sent in person or to appoint a member as a representative , 
(8 ) (i) If after all surpluses have been transferred , as to be present on his behalf at the time of the counting of 
reinbefore directed , less than the number of candidates votes. 
quired , has been elected , the Secretary shall exclude from 

99 . Notificalion of the declaration of results — The names 
e poll the candidate lowest on the poll and shall distri. 

of all the candidates declared clected shall be notified by 
ite his unexhausted papers among the continuing candi 

the Council in the Gazette of India , 
ites according to the next preferences recorded thereon . 
ny exhausted papers shall be set aside as finally dealt 100 . Finality of Secretary s decision - ( 1) The decision of 

the Secretary shall be final in all matters, not only in regard 

to the application of the provisions of the regulations con 
(ii ) The papers containing original votes of an excluded 

tained in this Chapter , but also in respect of all other 
ndidate shall first be transferred , the transfer value of 
ch paper being one hundred . 

matters not specifically covered by these provisions : 

Provided that an appeal against the Secretary s decision 
( iii) The papers containing transferred votes of an ex 

may be presented to the Council, by a candidate or his 
uded candidate shall then be transferred in the order of 

authorised representative , within ten days froin the date 
le transfers in which and at the value of which he ob 

of communication of the decision to him or his authorised 
ined them . 

representativc , and the appeal shall be dealt with by the 
(iv ) Each of such transfers shall be deemed to be a same Committee and in the same manner as specified in 
parate transfer , 

regulation 67. 


ith . 


PART III — SEO. 4 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


821 


(2 ) No election shall be deemed to be invalid merely (9 ) Contravention or nisuse of any of the provisions of 
by reason of the accidental omission to send, or delay in this chapter of making of any false statement knowing it 
sending a voting paper to a voter , or the accidental non - to be false or without knowing it to be true, while comply 
receipt of, or delay in receiving , a voting paper by a voter, ing with any of the provisions of this Chapter 
or any other accidental irregularity or informality n the 
conduct of the election 

102 Election dispute - (1) On receipt of an application 

under sub section (2 ) of section 10 , the President shall refer 
101 Disciplinary action against member in connection 

the matter to the Tribunal within thirty days of its 
unth conduct of election - A member shall be liable to dis 
ciplinary action by the Council, if he adopts one or more 

receipt 
of the following practices with regard to the election to (2 ) At the time of giving its decision, the Tribunal mav 
the Council , namely : 

pass such order as to costs as it may consider appropriate . 
(1 ) Bribery , that is to say , any gift , ofler or promise, of 
muy gratification to d person whoinsoever, by a candı 

(9 ) If the Tribunal is satisfied that an application made 
Hale or any other person with buis connivance , with the under sub section (2 ) of section 10 , was not founded on a 
object, directly or indirectly, of inducing 

valid ground , the Tribunal muy award costs to the Council 
(a ) a meinber to stand or not to stand as, or to with 

CHAPTER VII 
draw from being a candidate at an election ; 01 
(b ) a voter to vote or refrain from voting at an elec 

REGIONAL COUNCILS 
tion , 

103 Const111111on of Regional Councils-- - ( 1 ) (1) Regional 
or as a reward to 

Councils may be constituted for one or more of the regional 
(1) a member for having so stood or not stood , or for constitucncies mentioned hcrcunder or as may be sepcilied 
having withdrawn his candidature ; or 

[ rom time to time by the Central Government under clause 
( 11 ) a voter for having voted or refrained from voting, 

(a ) of sub section (2 ) of section 9 
Explanalion - For the purposes of this clause, the term 

I The States of Maharashtra & Gujarat. 
" gratilıcation " is not restricted to pecuniary gratiſıcations II The States of Madras, Andhra Pradesh , Kerala and 
or gratifications cstiinable in moncy , and it includes all 

Mysore . 
forms of entertainment and all forms of employment for 
" Teward , but it docs not include the payment of any ex 

III The States of West Bengal, Assam , Orissa and the 
penses bonafide incuricd at, on tor the purpose of any 

Union Territories of Manipur and Tripura , 
election . 

IV lhe States of Uttar Pradesh , Bihar, Madhya 
(2 ) Undue influence, that is to say , any direct or indirect 

Pradesh and Rajasthan 
interference or attempt to interfere on the part of a van 

V . The Union Territories of Delhi and limachal 
didate or of any other person , with his connivance , with the 
free exercise of any clcctoral right : 

Pradesh and the State of Punjab . 
* Provided that a declaration of policy or a promise of a ( 11) The Regional Councils shall at all times function 
particular action , or the inere exercisc of a legal right, subject to the control, supervision and direction of the 
without intent to interfere with an electoral right, shall Council and / or any of its Coininittces. 
not be deemed to be interference within the incaning of 104 . Names of Regional Councils _ The Regional 
this clause 

Councils set up for the aforesaid regional constituencies 
( 3 ) The publication by a candidate or by any other shall be known respectively as Western India Regional 
person , with his connivancc , of any statement of fact Council, Southern India Regional Council, Eastern India 
which is false , and which he cither believes to be false or Regional Couricil, Central India Regional Council and 
does not believe to be true, in relation to the personal Northern India Regional Council , and the regions covered 
Character or conduct of any candidate or in relation to by the respective constituencies shall be called Western 
thc candidature or withdrawal of any candidate, being Region , Southern Region , Eastern Region , Central Region , 
1 statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the pros and Northern Region , 
vects of that candidate s election 

105 Jurisdiclion of Regional Councils (1) The jurisdic 
(4 ) The obtailing or procuring or abetting or atempt - tion of the Western India Regional Council shall extend to 
y to obtain or procure, by a candidate or by any other the States of Maharashtra and Gujarat or the constituency 
person , with his connivance , any assistance for the further as may from time to time be specificd by the Cennial Gov 

lice of the prospects of the candidate s election from any crnment under clause (a ) of sub section (2 ) of section 9 , 
person serving under the Government of India or the Gov which includes the State of Maharashtra . 
rnment of any State, other than the giving of vote by such 
person , if he is a member entitled to vote. 

(2 ) The jurisdiction of the Sourthern India Regional 

Council shall extend to the States of Madras, Andhra 
(5 ) The hiring or procuring , whether on payment or 

Pradesh , Kerala and Mysorc , or the constitucncy as may 
therwise , of a vehicle by a candidate or by any other 

from time to time be specified by the Central Government 
verson , with his connivance , for the conveyance of voters. 

under clause (a ) of sub section (2 ) of section 9 , which 
(6 ) The canvassing for votes, or soliciting the vote of includes the State of Madras, 
ny voter , or persuading any voter not to vote for any 
articular candidate , or persuading any voter not to vote 

(8) The jurisdiction of the Eastern India Regional 
t the election , or exhibiting any notice or sign (other than 

Council shall extend to the States of West Bengal, Assam , 
official notice ), relating to the election , by a candidate 

Orissa and the Union Territories of Manipur and Tripura , 
by any other person , with his connivance , within a dis 

or the constituency as may from time to time bc specified 
ince of 200 metres from a polling booth . 

by the Central Government under clause (a ) of sub section 

( ) of section 9, which includes the State of West Bengal. 
(7) Any act specified in sub regulations (1) to (6 ) above , 
hen done by a member , who is not a candidate or a (4 ) The jurisdiction of the Central India Regional 
eniber acting with the connivance of a candidate. Council shall extend to the States of Uttar Pradesh , Bihar, 

Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan , or the constituency ay may 
(8 ) The receipt of, or agreement to reccive , any gratifi 

from time to time be specificd by the Central Government 
ition , whether as a motive or a reward - - 

under clause (a ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 9, which 
(a ) by a member for standing or not standing, as, or includes the State of Uttar Pradesh . 
withdrawing from being , a candidate ; or 

(5 ) The jurisdiction of the Northern India Regional 
( b ) by any member whomsoever for himself or any Council shall extend to the Union Territories of Delhi 

other person for voting or refraining from voting , and Himachal Pradesh and the State of Punjab , or thc 
or for inducing or attempting to induce any voter constituency as may from time to time be specified by the 
to vote or refrain from voting , or any candidate Central Government under clause (a ) of sub -section (2 ) of 
to withdraw his candidature . 

section 9, which includes the Union Territory of Delhi. 


322 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 

E PART III - SEO, 4 
- - _ - - = = - = = = 

- - - - 
106 . Dulics and functions of Regional Councils - lhe whose region is situated the addicss given by the Central 
duties and ſunctions of a Regional Council shall be: Government to the Council. 

(i) to provide facilities for intercourse among mem - 110 . Flection to and resignation from Regional Council 

bers in its region by regular mectings , anunge - (1) (i) A member shall be entitled to vote at and stand 
ment of talks and lectures and for the acquisition for any clection to the Regional Council from the region 
and dissemination of useful information ; 

within which his professional address fails on a dalc im 
( ii ) lo award prizes foi professional activities; mediately six months prior to the date on which 
( iii) to advice the Council on all matters referred to 

the list of members eligible to vote at and stand for 
it and to oſſer such other assistance as inay be 

that election is published : Provided his name has been 
required ; 

borne on the regional register continuously for a period 

of not less than six months immcdiately prior to the date 
(iv) to make representations to the Counci) in connec 

of the publication of the list and he is not in airears in 
tion with matters of professional and business 

respect of tre annual membership fee and the regional 
interest in its region and to offer suggestiolis for 

council fee on the 30th June of the year in which thu 
the amendment of the Act and those Regulations, 
for raising the standard and status of the pro 

clection is to be conducted . 
fession ; 

(ii ) ( a ) At least three inonths before the date or Jates 
to maintain a regional register of members, and 

of polling fixed for an election the Council shall publish 

ot, pol 
registers of articled clerks and audit clerks in its 

a list of members eligible to voic showing whether a voter 
region ; 

is an associate or a fellow . 
( vi) to supply routine information to members or to (b ) The list of members shall be put on the notice board 

the piospective candidates for articles or exami- of the Council and the notice boards of the Regional 
nations ; 

Councils. 
( vii ) to propagate among the incmbers the advisabi- (c ) The list shall be available on payment of such price 

lity and the necessity of observing the rules of pro - as may be fixed by the Council and this shall be notified 
fessional etiquette and the provisions of the Act in the Gazette of India and the Institute s Journal, 
and these Regulations; 

(d ) The Council shall publish in the Gazette of India 
( viii ) to collect news from the members of the profession a notice stating the number of meinbers to be elected and 

for publication in the Journal of the Institute , il calling for nominations of candidates for election by a 
necessary ; 

specificd date which shall not be less than 14 days from the 
(ix ) to recommend on its own motion , or on Ic erence date of the publication of the notice . 

by the Council , names for inclusion in the panel (2 ) A member whose name stands reinoved from thc 
of exqininers; 

Register of members maintained by the Council on the 
(x ) to consider and recommend to the Council books date on which lie is to cast his vote shall not be eligible 

which may be considered useful for candidates in either to vote or stand for the election , notwithstanding the 
tending to appear for the Preliminiry, Intermc- fact that his name has been published in the list of voters. 
diate and Final Examinations ; 

(8 ) A candidate for election to the Regional Council 
(xi) to arrange, if found practicable , for coaching shall pay a fee of fifty rupees to the Council . 

candidates for the aforesaid Examinations at 
convenient centies in its region ; 

(4 ) The number of members to be elected to the 

Regional Council shall be one for every hundred and 
(xii) to gather material from the Departments of the 

twenty five members in the region , entitled to vote at and 
Government in the States within its region for 

stand for election , fractions exceeding half being counted 
the purpose of enlisting their support in the ſur 

as one and fractions equivalent to or less than half beinr. 
therance of the interests of the incmbers ; 

omitted : 
(xiii) to run study-circles with sub -committees or 
branches for auditing, direct taxes, company law , 

Provided however that there shall be at least five elected 
costing , sales tax , etc ; 

members in each Regional Council. 
(xiv) to constitute a permanent research sub -committee (5 ) The election to the Regional Councils shall be con 

for promoting research by members in topics of ducted by the Council in such manner as may be specified 
intcrest to the profession ; 

by it in that behalf. 
(xv) to maintain a library and a reading room for the (6 ) Where any dispute arises regarding any election to a 
use of the inembers ; 

Regional Council , the matter shall be referred within 
(xyi) to bold refresher course camps at convenient thirty days from the date of the declaration of the result 
centres for the benelit of the meinbers; 

of the clection , to the President and his decision shall be 
(xvii ) to maintain an employment exchange for securing final. 

suitable employinent for qualilied accountants and (7) Subject to the provisions hereinbefore mentioned , the 
finding suitable qualificd accountants for emp - rules regarding clections prescribed in Chapter VI of these 
loyers; and 

Regulations shall , as far as possible , apply to the elections 
(xviii) to carry out such other functions as may be entrus- to the Regional Councils. 
ted froin time to time to it by the Council and /or 

(8 ) (i) Any member of a Regional Council inay at any 
any of its Committces. 

time resign his membership by writing under his hand 
107 . Maintenance of regional register - A Regional Coun addressed to the Chairman of the Regional Council and 
cil shall maintain a register to be known as " regional the scat of such meinber shall become vacant when such 
register " in which the names of the members , whose pro - resignation is notificd in the Gazette of India . 
fessional addresses are situated in its region , shall be en (ii) If an elected inember of a Regional Council 
tcred . 

elected to the Council during the duration of the Regional 
108 . Removal from the regional register _ The name of 

Council, such meinber shall cease to be an clected member 
a member , which has been removed from the register, shall 

of the Regional Council and the vacancy so caused may be 
ipso facto be removed from the relative regional register 

filled by election . 
and the member shall also cease to be a meinber of the 

( iii ) An elected member of a Regional Council shall b 
Regional Council . 

deemed to have vacated his seat on the said Council if hi 

absents himself from three consecutive meetings of thi 
109. Constitution of Regional Councils - A Regional 

Regional Council without leave of absence. 
Council shall consist of , 
(i) all the elected and nominated members of the 

(iv ) Any casual vacancy on a Regional Council shall bı 

filled by a fresh elcction and the person so elccted shal 
Council in its region ; and 

hold office until the dissolution of the Regional Council, - 
(ii) such members as may be elected by the members 
in the region , 

(v ) No act done by a Regional Council shall be caller 

in question on the ground merely of the existence of an 
Explanation : A nominated member of the Council vacancy in or defect in the constitution of the Regiona 
shall be deemed to be a member of the Regional Council in Council. 


PART III -- Sco . 4 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


323 


have halevel of pickime 


111. Office bearers and Commutteis — ( 1) (i) A Regional (ii ) A Regional Council may levy such further ſecs as 
Council shall, at its inecting held in the latter half of the it may consider necessary from members participating in 
month of September every year, as provided hereinafter , specific activities. 
shall elect out of its members i Chairman , a Vice - G A Regional Council may, with the prior sanction of 
Chudli, a Secretary and . Treasure thercof. 

the Council , collcct voluntary contributions for any speci 
( ii ) Il within half an hour from the time appointed for fic activity . 

eting a quorum as provided is not present, the (2) (i) The ſinds of a Regional Council shall be kept 
Sald neeting Shall , notwithstanding anything contained in in one of the scheduled bank approved by the Council in 
regulation 116 Stand adjourned to the saine day in the 

this behalf . 
next ucek at the same time and place and at such ad 

(ii ) The funds of a Regional Council shall be inployed 
journed meeting of the Regional Council , the itember 
present , whatever their number , shall for the quorum and 

for such purposes as inay from time to time be sanctiouçd 
shall have the power to transact all the business , which by the Regional Council : 
could properly have been transacted at the original niecting , Provided that no such funds shall be applied cither 
if the necessary quorum had been present. 

directly or indirectly for payment to the members of the 
(iii ) A vacancy of any of the offices hercinbcfore men 

Regional Council except for reimbursing them for any 

cxpenses incuried by them in connection with the business 
tioned , shall be filled by election , 

of the Regional Council in its region . 
(iv ) On the dissolution of a Regional Council, the Chair . 
man , the Secretary and the Treasurer for the time being , 

( 3) The accounts of a Regional Council as maintained 
shall discharge the duties and functions of the Chaiman , 

by thc Treasuier , shall be audited every year by a chartered 
the Sccretary and the Treasurer respectively as herein 

accountant in practice or a lirm of such chartered accoun 
provided until such time as the Chairman , the Secietary 

tants appointed by the members of the region at their 
and the Treasurer of the next Regional Council are elected 

dilual gciicial meeting and the accounts , together with 
and take charge of their respective duties. 

the audit report and the report of the Regional Council , 

shall be sent to the members in the region at least 14 days 
( 2 ) The Chairman of a Regional Council shall be the before the date of the annual general meeting and shall 
Chief Executive Authority of the Regional Council. 

al Council 

be placed for adopting before the annual general inceting 
( 3) The Secretary shall be responsible for the perforini 

of the members. 
ance of the gencral duties appertaining to the office , under ( 4 ) (1) A copy of the audited accounts and the report of 
the guidance of the Chairman , or in his absence the Vice - the Regional Council, as adopted by the annual general 
Chairman . 

mecting , shall be sent to the Council not later than one 

month after the date of the annual general inceting . 
(4 ) The Treasurer shall cause truc accounts to be 
maintained of the issets and liabilities and also of the 

(ii) The audited accounts of the Regional Councils 
moneys received and cxpended and shall deal with natters 

shall be annexed to the accounts of the Council for the 
in respect of which such icceipts and expenditure take 

year. 
place. 

113 . Duties and powers of Regional Council - - I he 
(5 ) The said office-bearers shall hold office until themeet 

duty of carrying out the provisions of this Chapter is 

enjoined on the Regional Council and each Regional 
ing of the Regional Council in the next year to he held 

Council is vested with the powers for carrying out the 
In the latter half of September, as provided hereinaſter. 

object of these Regulations. 
(6 ) The retiring officc -hcarers shall be eligible for rc - 111 1bbointment of stall - - Regional Council may ad 
election to any of the ollices of the Regional Council if they point sucli stal and servants for its office as it may from 
continue to be icmbers in the region . 

time to tiinc determine. 
( 7 ) The Regional Council at a niccting shall constitute 115 . Property , assets and funds - - All the property , assets 
such committees as the Council my direct and may also ud funds of . Regional Council shall vest in the Council, 
form such othei committees as it deemns necessary for the but the Regional Council shall aduinister the subject to 
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Chapler. the control, supervision and direction of the Council and / 
(8 ) A committee shall consist of the Chairman or the 

or its Exccutive Committee . 
Vice -Chairman of the Regional Council ex -officio and such 116 . Meetings of Regional Council ( 1) A Regional 
other members of the Regional Council as may be clccted Council may meet as often as necessary for the conduct of 
by it : 

its business : 
Provided that there shall be at lcast three members in 

Provided that onc meeting shall be held in the latter half 

of the month of September every year 
luding the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman in a com 
Hittcc . 

(2) Business before a Regional Council shall ordinarily 
Provided further that in the case of any committee cons 

be conducted at a meeting of the Regional Council: 
ituted under the direction of the Council , one inerber 

Provided that the Chairman , or in his absence the Vice 
shall be nominated by the Council from amongst its mem 

Chairman , may in an appropriate case circulate the papers 
bers in the region . 

relating to it ainong all the members of the Regional 

Council for decision : 
(9 ) The Regional Council shall elect any member of the 

Provided further that no decision on the case shall be 
committce to be its Chairman : 

taken by circulation , unless not less than two thirds of the 
Provided that in the case of any committee constituited members agree to decide the case by circulation . In the 
under the direction of the Council, unless otherwise IllIIll- event of such majority not agreeing , the Chairman or the 
nated by the Council, the Chairman or the Vice -Chairinan Vice -Chairman , as the case may be, shall withdraw the 
of the Regional Council , as the case may bc , shall be the papers from circulation and have the question decided 
Chairman of that committee. 

at a meeting of the Regional Council . 
( 10 ) A member of a committee shall hold office until the ( 3) Where the papers relating to any case are circulated 
inceting of the Regional Council in the next year to be among the members, a period of not less than fiftech days 
held in the latter hair of Scpteinber , as provided hereinafter , commencing from the date of the circulation shall elapse 
but subject to being a ineinber of the Regional Council , he before any decision is taken on the casc : 
shall be cligible for re-election , 

Provided that a decision may be taken bcforc the cxpiry 
( 11) The rules regarding mectings of the Regional of such period if the views of all thic members are received 
Council prescribed hereinafter shall , as far as possible , be earlier . 
Applicable to mcetings of committees of the Regional (4 ) T he decision taken by the circulation of papers shall 
Council . 

he put up for information before the Regional Council at 
, U2. France and accounts — ( 1 ) (i) A Regional Council its next mecting . 
sliall be sell-supporting and shall not borrow or obtain 117. Nolice ol Mccting - ( 1) The Secretary to the Re 
credit without the prior sanction of the Council, 

gional Council shall issue by post or otherwise noticç in 


324 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


[ Part III-- SEO . 4 


writing at least 14 days before the date of the meeting 127. Chairman of meeling — The Chairman , or in his 
to every inember of the Regional Couticil : 

absenice the Vice-Chairman of the Regional Council , shall 
Provided that iſ ariy two of the following, namely, the 

preside at a general mceting : 
Chairman , the Vice Chairman and the Secretary of the Provided that in their absence, the inęmbery present at 
Regional Council, consider it necessary , a meeting of the the mecting may elect one among themselves to preside at 
Regional Council may be convened at a shorter notice not the niccting. 
being less than seven days , or with the approval of the 128 . Onorum - ( 1 ) No business shall be transacted at a 
meinbers of the Regional Council at a still shorter notice . general meeting unless there is a quorum at the commence 

(2 ) The notice shall contain the time, date and place of ment of the meeting . 
meeting and , as far as possible , the business to be transacted 

( 2). Twenty Incmbers shall form a quoruin . 
thereat. 

129. Absence of quorum - If within half an hour from 
( 3 ) Subject to the provisions of this regulation , the the time appointed for the meeting, a quorum is not porn 
Chairman or any three members of the Regional Council 

sent, the meeting, if convened upon a requisition as afore 
may ask the Secretary to call a meeting on a specified date said . shall stand dissolved ; but in any other casc shall 
and time. 

stand adjourned to the same day in the next week at the 
118 . Quorum , No business shall be transacted at any sauc time and place and at such adjourned meeting tho 
meeting unless there is a quorum of three members. If this members present, whatever their number , shall have power 
quoruin is not present, the inccting shall stand adjourned to transact all the business which could properly have been 
sine die . 

transacted by the originalmeeting had the necessay quoruwm * 
119 . Chairman of meeting - The Chairman , or in his 

been present thereat. 
absence the Vice-Chairinan , shall preside at a meeting of 

130 . Decision by majority - ( 1) All the questions before a 
the regional council : 

general meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes. 
Provided that in their absence, the members present at (2 ) If the votes on a question are equal, the Chairman 
the meeting may clect one among themsclves to preside at shall have a casting vote . 
the meeting 

131. Whatmembers not entitled to voteNo person shall 
120. Decision by majorily - ( 1 ) All the questions before a be entitled to vote at a general meeting unless his name is 
Regional Council shall be decided by a majority of votes on the regional register and he has paid his annual 
(2 ) If the votes on a question arc equal the Chairman of 

membership fee and regional council fee. 
the meeting shall have a casting vote. 

132. Term of Regional Council — (1) The term of a 
121. Meclings of members of revions--- A Rovional Regional Council shall be three years from the date , which 
Couticil may call a meeting of the members of the region as 

shall be specified by the Council : 
often as it may deem necessary : 

Provided that the Council may, iſ in its opinion circums 
Provided that two incetings shall be called in every year. tances so warrant, extend or shorten the term of a Regional 
122 . Annual general meeting (1) A general meeting 

Council by a notification in this behalf. 
shall be called between the 15th day of June and the 15th (2 ) On the expiry of the term of a Regional Council, a 
day of July every year and it shall be called the annual new Regional Council shall be constituted in tlic manner 
general mceting. 

provided hereinbefore. 
(2 ) Any other meeting shall be called an extraordinary 

133. Dissolution of Regional Council - Notwithstanding 
general meeting. 

anything contained hereinbcfore , a Regional Council shall 
123. Nolice ol meeling - At least 11 days notice of every stand dissolved if : 
niccting specifying the day , place and hour of such mecting 
and in the case of special business, the general nature of 

(i) a majority of three fourths of the meinbeis on the 
the business , shall be given . 

regional register pass a resolution for dissolution 

at a general meeting of the members; or 
124 . Friraordinary general unceling - ( 1) The Regional 
Council shall , on a requisition made in writing by at least 

( ii) after giving an opportunity to it of being heard , 
20 per cent of the total number of weinbres of the region 

the Council decides to dissolve the Regional 
or fifty meinbers of the region , whichever is less, convene 

Council . 
an extraordinary general meeting. 

134 . Branches of Regional Councilme( 1) The Council 
(2 ) Any such requisition shall specify the object for may , by a notification in the Gazette of India , set up 
which the meeting is requisitioned , shall be signed by the branch of a Regional Council in a city other than the head 
inembers making the saine and shall be delivered at the quarters of the Regional Council : 
office of the Regional Council. 

Provided that not less than 50 members are residing in 
(8 ) On a valid rcquisition , the Regional Council shall the city or within a distance of 10 miles from the city 
convene an extraordinary general meeting within six limits. 
weeks of the receipt of the requisition 
( 1) If the Regional Council fails to convene the extra 

( 2 ) A branch shall function subject to the control , super, 
ordinary general meeting as provided by sub -regulation 3 , 

vision and direction of the Council through the Regionat 

Council and shall carry out such directions as may from tiine 
the requisitionists may convenc a meeting within three 
months from the date of the requisition , 

to time be issued by the Council. 
125. Resolutions — (1) A member of the region shall be 

CHAPTER VIII 
entitled to move any resolution for the consideration of 
the meeting of the members : 

MEETINGS AND PROCEEDINGS OF THE COUNCIL 
Provided that a draft of the resolution is received by the 135 . Meetings of Council ( 1) The Council shall meet at 
Secretary to the Regional Council at least 20 days before least once in every six months at such time and place as the 
the date of the meeting : 

President may determine. 
Provided further that the Chairman of the meeting may (2) Within fourteen days of the dissolution of a Council 
admit a resolution in respect of which a shorter notice is as provided in sub - section (1 ) of section 14 , i riccting of 
received . 

the new Council shall be held . 
(2 ) Any proposal received after the prescribed time and 
not admitted by the Chairman of the meeting , shall be 

136 . Nolice of Council meeting - A notice of the time and 
treated as a proposal for the next following inecting of the place of a meeting shall be sent to the registered address of 
members. 

every member of the Council not less than twenty -one days 

before such meeting and such notice shall , as far as practic 
126 . Business before the annual meeting -- - The busincss 
before the annual gencral meeting shall be to reccive the 

able , contain a statement of the business to be transacted at 
report of Regional Council, to adopt the accounts, to 

the inceting : 
appoint auditors and to transact such other business as Provided that in the case of a special meeting , the Presi 
may be brought before the meeting with the perinission of dentmay inform the members of th¢ subject for discussion 
the Chairman of the meeting . 

at the meeting, 


T 


Part Ift - Sto . 41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


380 


137 . Special meetings of Council - A special inceting of (2 ) If there is no quorum within half an hour of the time 
the Council may at any time be called by the Presidenī, or fixed for the mecting, the meeting shall stand adjourned to 
in his absence by the Vice -President, or at the request in a date , time and place fixed by the President or in his 
writing addressed to the Secretary , by at least 25 per cent absence the Vice-President. 
of the members of the Council for the time being. 

146 . Procedure for transaction of business ( 1) The 
188. Chairman of meeting- Al a meeting of the Council, business of a Standing Committee shall ordinarily be trans 
the President, or in his absence the Vice-President, shall acted at a meeting of the Committee . 
preside, or in the absence of both , a member clected from 
among the members who are present, shall preside . 

Provided that the President, or in his absence the 

Vice -President , may in an appropriatc case circulate the 
139. Quorum at meeling -- ( 1) One-third of the total 

papers relating to it among the meinbers of the Committee 
number of members shall constitute a quorum . 

for decision : 
(2 ) If , at the time appointed for a meeting, there is no Provided further that if three members of the Committee 
quoruin and if on the expiration of half an hour from the require that any question be dccided at a ineeting , the 
time appointed for the meeting, there is no quorum , the President, or in his absence the Vice -President, shall with 
mecting shall stand adjourned to such timc, date and place draw thc papers from circulation and have the question 
as the Chairman of the meeting may appoint. 

determined at a meeting of the Committee . 
( 3) No quorum shall be required for the mceting ad - (2 ) Where the papers relating to any question are cir 
journed under sub -regulation (2). 

culated among the members, a period of not less than 
140 . Procedure for transaction of business (1 ) The 

ſiſteen days, commencing from the date of the circulation 
business of the Council shall ordinarily be transacted at a 

of the papers, shall elapse before any decision is taken on 
meeting of the Council : 

the question : 
Provided that the President, or in his absence the Vice 

Provided that a decision may be taken before the expiry 
President, may in an appropriate case circulate the papers 

of such period if the opinion of all the members is received 
among the members of thc Council for deciding any 

earlier, 
question : 

(3 ) A decision taken by the circulation of the papers 
Provided further that if cight meinbers of the Council Si 

mil shall be communicated to all the members, 
require that any question be decided at a meeting , the 147 . Casting l ote - All the questions before a Standing 
President, or in his absence thc Vice -President, shall with Committee shall be decided by a majority of votes and in 
draw the papers from circulation and have the question de the case of equality of votes , the President, or in his absence 
termined at a meeting of the Council. 

the Vice-President, shall have a casting vole . 
( 2) Where the papers relating to any question are cir 

148 . Minutes (1 ) The Secretary shall be the Sccretary 
culated among the members, a period of not less than 15 

for every Standing Committee. 
days , commencing from the date of the circulation of the 
papers, shall elapse before any decision is taken on the 

(2 ) The Secretary shall maintain a record of the business 
question : 

transacted by the Committee cither by the circulation of 
Provided that a decision may be taken before the expiry 

the papers or at a meeting of the Committee . 
of such period if the opinion of all the members is received 

149 . Executive Committeem ( 1) The Executive Com 
earlier. 

mittee shall perform the following functions, namely : -- 

( a ) maintenance of office of the Council and for this 
(3 ) The decision shall be in accordance with the opinion 

purpose the Executive Comiuittee may employ , 
in writing of the majority of the members , 

suspend, discharge or re -employ the necessary 
(4 ) A decision taken by the circulation of the papers shall 

staff on such terms and conditions as it may deem 
be comiuunicated to all the members of the Council. 

fit ; 
141. Passing of resolution at a meeting -- Ar a inceting 

maintenance of true and correct accounts of all 
of the Council, a resolution shall be passed by a majority 

the receipts and payments on behalf of the Council 
of the members present unless otherwise required by the 

and the matters in respect of which such receipts 
Act or these Regulations, and in the case of equality 

and payments take place and of all the property , 
of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have a cast 

securities, debts, fund , and liabilities of the Insti 
ing vote. 

tute ; 
142. Adjournment of a meeting - (1) Subject to thc pro 

maintenance of the Register, register of articled 
visions of these Regulations, the Chairman of a meeting 

and audit clerks and all other statutory registers 
of the Council may , with the consent of the members 

which are prescribed by the Act or these Regula 
present, adjourn the meeting from time to time and from 

tions; 
place to place but no business, other than the business 
left unfinished at a mecting , shall be transacted at the 

(d ) custody of the property , assets and funds of the 

Institute ; 
adjourned meeting. 

(e ) investment of the spare funds of the Institute in 
(2 ) No notice may be given of an adjourned meeting 

securities approved by the Council and to vary 
unless it is so directed by the resolution for adjournment. 

such investments froin time to time; 
143. Record of minutes — (1) Minutes shall be recorded 
of a meeting of the Council. 

(f) disbursements from thc funds of the Institute for 

experiditure , both revenue and capital, within the 
(2) The minutes, after having been approved by the 

estimates previously sanctioned by the Council : 
members and signed by the Chairman of the next moet 
ing , shall be sufficient evidence of the proceedings of the 

Provided that in an emergent case , expenditure, in cx 
Council. 

cess of the estimates, previously sanctioned by the Council 

inay be incurred by the Committee but such excess cxpendi 
CHAPTER IX 

ture shall be brought to the notice of the Council at its next 
STANDING AND OTHER COMMITTEES 

meeting ; and 
144 . Time and place of meeting - ( 1) The President may (g ) admission of follows, reinoval and restoration of 
at any time, and shall on the requisition of any two mem 

names of members, cancellation of certificates of 
bers of a Standing Coinmittee , call a meeting of the 

practice , issue of certificates of membership , 
Committee. 

prosecution of members on the findings of the 
(2 ) The meeting of a Standing Committee shall be held 

Council, granting perinission to chartered accoun 
at such place and at such time as the President may direct. 

tants in practice or firms of such chartered accoun 
(8 ) A notice of not less than seven days of every such 

tants to have a branch office in India without 
meeting shall ordinarily be given to every member of the 

being in separate charge of a member until the 
Committee. 

Council decides the matter , placing before the 

Council cases of infringement of non -technical 
145 , Quorum -- - ( 1) No business shall be transacted at a 

nature , of the provisions of sub -section ( 1) of 
meeting of a Standing Compuittee unless there are present 

section 27 and cases of infringement of a techni 
at least three members, including the President or in his 

cal nature exceeding six months, publication of 
absence , the Vice - President, 

the list of members and issue of the Journal, 


( b ) 


326 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


Paar II1 - $ 50 . 4 


- 


Iraw 


- 


- 


( 2 ) Thic Executive Committee may delcgate any of its 
functions to the President or the Vice -President. 


receipt of the requisition the members who had sent the 
rcquisition inay themselves convene the mecting, elect their 
own Chairman and transact business for which the requisi 
tion had been sent, 


(3 ) The Council shall have the power to review any 
decision taken by the Executive Committcc or by the 
President or the Vice- President in the performance of the 
functions delegated to it to him . 

150 . Examinalion Committee - ( 1) The Examination 
Committee shall perform all the functions of the Council 
relating to the exaininations, such as holding of exagilina- 
tions , admissions thereto , maintenance of proper discipline 
during the examinations, appointment and selection of ex 
aminers, prescription of books for the guidance of candi 
dates , declaration of results, payment of remuneration to 
cxaminers and / or assistant examiners, superintendents of 
the cxaminations and others. 


(9 ) The Chairman of any meeting of a sub committee 
shall maintain a record of all the business transacted by the 
sub -committee . 

( 10 ) All questions before a sub - committee shall be de 
cided by a inajority of votes . In the event of equality of 
votes, the Chairnian of the meeting shall have a casting 
vote . 


CHAPTER X 


(2 ) Except as otherwise provided by these Regulations, 

MISCEJ LANEOUS 
the Exainination Committee shall exercise all the functions 
in relation to articled clerks and audit clerks. 

153. Headquarters of the Council The headquarters of 

the Council shall be located at such a place as may ba 
(3 ) The Examination Committee may delegaate any of its notified by the Central Government in this behalf. 
functions to the President or the Vice -President. 

154 . Custody of common seal- The common seal shall 
(4 ) The Council shall have the power to review any be kept in the custody of the Secretary . 
decision taken by the Examination Committee or the Presi- 155 . Affxing common seal - All instruments on which 
dent or the Vice- President in the performance of the func- the coinmon seal is required to be affixed by or under any 
tions delegated to it or him . 

law shall be so affixed and countersigned by the Secretary . 
151. Committees other than Standing Committees ( 1 ) 156 . Method of payment of fees — All fees specified in 
Committees other than Standing Committees appointed by 

these Regulations shall be paid to the Secretary in such 
the Council under sub -section ( 2 ) of section 17 , shall con - manner as the Council may direct. 
sist of a Chairman , a Vice -Chairman and such other mem 

157 . Issue of duplicate certificates - (1) Where a bolder oſ 
bers of the Council , as may be elected on it by the Council 

a certificate granted by the Council has lost it , the Council 
and any other inembers who may be co -opted , with the 

may , on an application made in this behalf, duly supported 
sanction of the Council, 

by an affidavit of the applicant to the effect that he was in 
(2 ) The committees shall discharge such functions as may 

possession of such a certilicate and had lost it, issue a dupli 
be directed by the Council from time to time, 

cate , on receipt of a fee of ten rupees in the case of a certin 

ficate of membership as an associate or a fellow , a certifi 
( 3 ) The provisions contained in regulations 144 , 145, 146 , cate of practice as an associate or a fellow , and a certificate 
147 and 148 , relating to the tiine and place of meetings, renewing a certificate of practice , and Give rupees in the case 
quorum , procedure for transaction of business , casting of any other certificate . 
vote , minutes, etc. shall apply mutatis mutandis to such 

(2 ) Where any certificate granted by the Council is 
committecs except that the reference to President and Vice 
President in the regulations referred to above, shall be 

damaged , the Council may, on an application made in this 

behalf, issue a duplicate on receipt of the fee prescribed 
construed as reference to Chairman and Vice -Chairinan ros 

above and on return of the damaged certificate. 
pectively of a committcc and the Secretary shall be the 
Secretary for only such of the committees as may be 158 . Publication of list of members- While publishing 
directed by the Council . 

the list of members under sub -section (3 ) of section 19 , the 

Council may distinguish , in such manner as it may think 
152 . Sub -committees of Standing and other Commillees 

fit, between the associates and fellows in practice and 
(1) The Council or any Standing Committee or other 
committee may appoint a sub -coinmittee consisting of its 

between the asociates and ſellows not in practice. 
members and such other members, as it may consider extra 159. Members to supply information (1 ) For the pur 
pedient. 

pose of the publication of the list of members, the Council 
(2 ) Every sub -committee shall have a Chairman who 

may require members to supply such information as it 

considers relevant. 
shall also be the convenor of the sub -committcc . 
(8 ) A sub -committee shall discharge such functions as 

160 . Change in the professional or residential address 
may be directed by the Council or the committee con 

Every time there is a change in the professional address or 
cerned . 

residential address of a member, he shall within twenty 

eight days of the change, communicate the new address to 
(4 ) The Chairman of a sub -committee may at any time the Council , 
and shall , on a requisition of not less than one third of 
members of the sub -committee, call a meeting of the sub 

161. Place of business ( 1 ) Every member in practice 
cominittee . 

shall have a place of business in India in his own charge 

or in charge of another member , 
(5 ) The meeting shall be held at such place , time and 
date as the Chairman may decide, 

(2 ) In the case of a member who is an employee of a 

chartered accountant or a firm of such chartered account 
(6 ) A notice of not less than seven days of every such ants and is not holding a certificate of practice , the pro 
meeting shall ordinarily be given to every member of the 

ſessional address of the employer shall be deemed to be his 
sub -committee . 

place of business , 
(0 ) One half or three of the members of the sub 

(3) Except in the case of a person enrolled under the 
committee, whichever is greater , shall form a quorum . In 

proviso to section 4 ( 1 ) (v ), a member not in practice may 
the event of there being no quorum within half an hour specity 

specify a place which shall be deemed to be his place of 
of the time fixed for the meeting, the meeting shall stand 

business for purposes of section 21 and these Regulations. 
adjourned to a date , time and place specified by the 
Chairman of the meeting . 

(4 ) The postal address of the place of business shall, 

be intimated to _ the Council at the time of making the ap 
(8 ) In the event of the Chairman of a sub -committee plication for membership and any change in the place of 
failing to call a meeting of the sub - committee inspite of a business or the postal address shall be communicated to 
requisition under sub -regulation (4 ), within 7 days of the the Council within 30 days of the change. 


PART III - SEO. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


327 


(5 ) The Council may remove the nameof a member from (b ) in the case of an auditor of a cooperative society , 
he Register who has contravcued the provisions of this 

the fees may bc based on a percentage of the paid 
regulation . 

up capital or the working capital or the gross or 
162 Proof of service of nolire - All notices requned by 

niet incomc or polits ; and 
che Act on these Regulations to be given to meinbers shall ( ) in the casc of a valuer for the purposes of direct 
pe forwarded by post to such professional address and if 

Taxes and duties, the fees may be based on a per 
chere is no professional address residential address) as may 

centage of the value of the property 
have been last registered with the Council, and for proving 168 Particulars of nationality = ( 1 ) A member shall sub 
hat such notice has been given , it shall be sufficient to mit to the Council particulars regarding his nationality 
prove that such notice was properly addressed and posted 
163 Council to be informed when a branch office is 

(2) Every change in such particulars shall - be intimated 
opened or closed - A chartered accountant in placlice ola than twenty eight days from the date of such change. 

to the Council as early as possible, but in any case not later 
Grm of such chartered accountants shall inform the Council 
within sixty days of the opening or closing of a branch 

169 Maintenance of accounts - It shall be the duty of 
office 

the Secretary to maintain or causc to be maintained proper 
161 Register of offices and firms— ( 1 ) A chartered ac 

accounts of the receipts and expenditure of the Council 
countant in practice or a firm of such chartered accountants 

170 Nomination of auditors — ( 1 ) The auditors shall be 
shall within three months of the cominencument of practice nominated by two nuembers of the Council and such nomi 
or the formation of thc firm supply to the Council in thc nation shall be signed by the membeis nominating and by 
appropriate Form particulars iegarding his office or the the candidate , and shall be deposited at the office of the 
firm , as the case may be . 

Council at least three days before the meeting . 
( 2 ) The Council Shall Waintain a register of othces and ( 2 ) The auditors who are in oflice shall be deerned to 
firms and shall register therein the particulars rcteried to have been hiomiated for the next annual meeting unless 
in sub regulation ( 1) 

they have intimated to the Secretary their deyirc not to be 
(3) Everytime there is a change in the particulars 1c 

rc clected . 
ferred to in sub -regulation (1 ), the member or the firm , as 171. Retirement of auditors — The auditors shall retire 
the case inay be , shall within sixty days coinmunicate it to at the next anual meeting of the Council after their elec 
thc Council. 

Lion , but shall be cligible for re clecuon 
(4 ) The Council may, at its discietion , refuse to register 172 Remuneration of auditors — The Council shall deter 
d trade or a firm name iſ that name is already used by a mine the remuneration , if any, to be paid to the auditors 
chartered accountant in practice or a firm of such elected at the annual mecting 
chartered accountants and has been entered in the register 

173 Casual vacancy in the office of auditors - - If any 
of ofhces and firms. 

vacancy occurs in the office of an auditor between two an 
(5 ) Where the sainc trade or firin name has been re nual meetings or if a vacancy is not filled at an annual 
gistered in the past , in the register of offices and frms, in mccting , it may be filled by the Exccutive Committee , and 
the case of two or inore inembers or ſimils , the Councilmy thc person appointed as auditor shall hold office until the 
dircct the member or the firm , as the case my bu , other next annual meeting, but he shall be cligible for election : 
than the one whose name way registered first in the le 
gister of offices and firins, to alter the name in such 

Provided that during such vacancy the continuing audi 
manner as the Council inay consider proper and infotun the 

tor may act alone 
Council of such alteration within a mnonths of the issue 174 Audit of accounts ( 1) The Council , not less than 
of the direction . 

(wo inonths before the date of the winual meeting , shall 
(0 ) (i) No member shall practice under d trade or firin 

deliver to the auditory , the accounts of the preceding your 
name which has been refused registration under sub 

and the auditors shall cxamine such accounts and report 
regulation (4 ). 

thcreon , not less than one month before the date of the 
( 11 ) No member shall practise under a tiade or firm name 

meeting 
in respect of which a dilection has been issued under sub (2 ) The juditors shall be entitled to ask for any informa 
regulation (5 ), after the expiry of six months from the date tron or explanation regarding the accounts from the Secre 
of issue of the direction 

( ary and such wformation or explanation shall , as far as it 
(7 ) Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to 15 available at the time, DC SUPP 
firms of chartered accountants in practice with identical 175 Functions to be performed by the Prendent on the 
tames, if at lcast one of the partners of the firms is com dissolution of the Council - On the cxpiration of the dura 
mon 

tion of the Council, the President of the Councıl at the time 
165 Chartered accountant in practice no lo engage in of such expiration shall discharge all the administrative 
any other business or occupation - A chartered accountant duties of the Council under the Act and these Regulations 
in practice shall not engage in any business or occupation and all the functions of the Executive and Examinacion 
other than the profession of accountancy , except with the Committees of the Council until such tine as a new Fresi 
permission granted in accordance with a resolution of the dont shall have been elected and shall have taken over 
Council 

charge of his duties : 
166 Part time employmenis a chartered accountant in 
practice may accept — Notwithstanding anything contained 

Provided , however, that the President for the time being 
in regulation 165 , but subject to the control of the Council , 

shall call a mecting of the next Council to be held within 
a churtered accountant in practice may act as a liquidator, 

fourteen days from the date of the dissolution of the out. 
trustee, executor, administratoi , dhurator , icccner , adviser fun 

going Council 
or representative for costing , fiuancial or taxation matter , 176 Powers and dulies of the President and Vice -Presi 
or may take up an appointinent that may be made by the dent ( 1 ) The President shall exerCISC siich powers and per 
Central Government or a State Government or a Court of form such duties as are specified by the Act and these Kegu 
Law or any other legal authority or my act as a secretary lations, and as may be delegated by the Council and / or the 
in his professional capacity , provider his employment is not Standing Committccy from time to timc 
on a salary cum full- lime basis 

( 2 ) The President may direct any business to be brought 
167 Restriction on fees — No churtered accountint in before the Council or Standing Cominıttce for considera 
practice shall charge or offer to change , acccpt or oiler to i 
accept, in respect of any professional airployment, fces 
which are based on a percentage of prolis, or which are ( 3) If the office of the President is vacant, or if the Presi 
contingent upon the findings, of results of suuh ein ploi dent for any reason is unable to exercise the powers or per 
ment : 

form the duties of his office , the Vice President shall act in 
Provided that , 

his place and shall exercise the powers and perform the 

duties of the President 
(a) in the case of a receiver on a liquidator, the fees 

may be basçd on a percent. ge of the realisation of 177 Powers and duties of the Secretary – Subject lo the 
the assets; 

general supervision of the President and / or the relevant 


11011 


с 


328 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[ PART III — SHO. 4 


Standing Committee , the Secretary shall excrcise and per- 178 . Higher training for meinbers — The Council muy 
form , in addition to the powers and duties specified by the impart or arrange to impart practical and / or theoretical 
Açt and / or thesc Regulations in this behalf , the following training and hold cxamiriations in such subjects as it may 
powers and duties , namely : 

consider useful for members and may award certificates or 
(1) being in charge of the office of the Institute as its 

diplomas in connection therewith in accordance with the 
executive head ; 

rules contained in Schedule C . 
(2 ) enrolling associates, admitting fellows, removing from 

179 . Power to remove difficulties (1) If any difficultya 
the membership owing to death or non -payment of any 

arises in giving effect to the provisions of these Regulations, 
prescribed focs or at a member s request and restoring to 

the Council may , by general or special order , do anything 
membership and issuing notifications therefor; 

not inconsistent with these provisions which appear to it 

to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of reinoving 
( 3 ) sanctioning and renewing of certificates of practice the difficulty . 
for associates and fellows, cancelling of certificates of prac 
tice at the request ofmembers; 

(2 ) In particular , and without prejudice to the generali 

of the foregoing power , any such order may provide for 
( 4 ) granting of permission to members to be engaged in continuing in force such provisions of the Chartered Ac 
other occupations besides the practice of the profession of 

countants Regulations, 1949 , as were applicable to persons 
accountancy under regulation 163 within the categories per governed by the Auditor s Certificates Rules, 1932 or such 
initted by the Council; 

other provisious as conferred any right or privilege or as 
(5 ) excinpting any chartered accountant in practice or a imposed any obligation or liability. 
firm of such chartered accountants from the operation of 180 . Repeal ol Chartered Accountants Regulations. 
sub -section ( 1) of section 27 for a period not exceeding six 1919 % ( 1 ) The Chartered Accountants Rcgulations, 1949, are 
months, where the infringement is of a technical nature ; hereby repealed . 

(6 ) maintaining registers, documents and forms as re- (2 ) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Chartered AC 
quired by the Act and thesc Regulations ; 

countants Regulations, 1949 (hereinafter rcfcrred to as the 
(7) being in charge of all the property of the Institute ; repealed Regulations) and without prejudice to the gene 

tality of the provisions contained in sub -regulation (3 ) of 
(8 ) making necessary arrangements for receiving moneys 

hey regulation 2, it is hereby declared as follows: -- 
due to the Council and also issuing receipts therefor ; 
(9) incurring revenue expenditure within the limits sanc 

Any appointment, notification , order, election , examik , 

nation , result of an examination , service as an arti 
tioned by the Council or the committees and incurring 

cled or audit clerk , made , issued , held , declared , 
capital expenditure for the purpose of purchasing books for 

rendered or any other thing done under the repeal 
the library of the Institute within the limits sanctioned by 

ed Regulations shall , so far as it is not inconsistent 
the Council and / or the committees ; 

with the provisions of these Regulations, be deem 
( 10 ) causing proper accounts to be maintained and 

ed to have been made, issued , held , declared , 
delivering of accounts books, information etc., to the audi 

rendered or donc under thc provisions of these 
tors appointed by the Council for the purpose of audit of 

Regulations unless and until it is superseded I 
the accounts of the Institute ; 

action taken in accordance with these Regulations. 
(11) making all other payments as sanctioned by the 
Council, committees and for the President; 

SCHEDULE A 
(12 ) paying salary and allowances to the members of the 

FORM “ l" 
staff , granting ol leave ctc. to them , and sanctioning their Register of Members of the Institute of Chartered Accoun 
increments in accordance with the approved scales; 

tants of India 
(13 ) excrcising disciplinary control over the staff , except 

1. Enrolment No . 
dismissal in respect of which the sanction of the President 
shall be necessary ; 

2 . R . A . Enrolment No. 
(14 ) admitting candidates to the examinations held under 3 . Name in full. 
these Regulations and making all necessary arrangements 
for the conduct of the examinations; 

4 . Date of birth . 
( 15 ) refunding or transferring fees roccived under these 

5 . Domicile. 
Regulations for the examinations, enrolment, issue of certi- 6 . Residential address . 
ficates of practice and allied matters ; 

7 . Professional address. 
(16 ) registering and noting suspension /cancellation / 

Hlation / 8. Date of entry in the Register . 
termination of articles and / or audit service and permitting 
articled clerks of deceased members and those who had 9 . Qualifications. 
ceased to be in practice to be taken as extra articled clerks; 10 . Whether holding a certificate of practice . 

( 17 ) permitting articled and / or audit clerks to cngage in 11. Date of adınission as Fellow . 
other occupation as approved by the Council and / or the 

12. Whether practising independently, in partnership or 
committees and granting reduction in the period of articled 

employed in a firm of Chartered Accountants in prac 
and / or audit service in accordance with these Regulations; 

tice . 
(18 ) condoning any break in the service of articled and 13 . Whether holding a salaricd employment, if not in prac 
audit clerks up to a maxiinum period of six months in his 
discretion ; 

14. Change of address , if any . 
( 19) signing and issuing all notifications on behalf of thc 16 . Remarks 
Council; 
(20 ) signing vakalat namas on behalf of the Council, ap 

FORM " 2" 
pointing solicitors or advocates on behalf of the Council , THE INSTITUTE OL CHARTERED) ACCOUNTANTS 
and filing papers in Courts, ctc ., on behalf of the Council, 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
subject to the approval of the President; 

Form of application for entry in the Register 
(21) calling such further information and particulars as 
he considers necessary in furtherance of the above duties ; To 
and 

The Secretary to the Council of the Institute of 
(22) performing such other duties and functions as are 

Chartered Accountants of India . 
incidental and ancillary to and may be required for the per- Sir . 
formance of the above duties and exercising such other 
powers as may be delegated by the Council and / or com I beg to apply that my name be entered in the Register. 
mittees or the President from time to tinc . 

I hereby declare that I am not subject to any of the disabili 


tice . 


Part III - SEO . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


329 


To 


Sir , 


ties stated in section 8 of the Chartered Accountants Act, * Applicants are requested to produce cvidence of their 
1949 The required particulars arc furnished below : age. 
1. Name in lull (block letters) 

+ Original diplomas, certılıcates and / or other documents, 

or attested copies thereof, in support of the qualifications 
2 Father s name 

claimed must be sent with the application 
3 Date of birth 

IIf there be more than one place of business, principal 
4 Nationality 

place of business may also be indicated . 
5 . Educational qualifications ť 
6 (a ) The year and inonth in which the applicant passed 

FORM " 3 " 
the Examination which qualılies hun for his name 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHAR CEREI) ACCOUN L ANTS 
being entered in the Registei , and 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
(b ) Name of the Fxamination and Roll No if any at 
that Examination 

Form of application for restoring the name in the Register 
7 (a ) The name of the Chartered Accountant(s) in prac 

tice or the firm of Chartered Accountants in prac The Secretary to the Council of the Institute of 
tice under whom the applicant served as an articl 

Chartered Accountants of India . 
ed clerk or as an audit clerk 
01. ) The period of service as an articled clerk and / or I beg to apply for restoration ofmy name in the Register 

audit clerk together with the dates of commence . I also hereby declare that I am not subject to any of the 
ment and termination . 

disabilities stated in section 8 of the Chartered Accountants 
(c) Articles Decd Registration No (6 ) 

Act, 1949 The required particulars are ſurnished below : 
(d ) Audit Service Registration No. (s) 

1. Name in full (in block letters) 
(e ) Details of such other practical training which has 2 Father s namc. 
been recognised by the Councıl as equivalent to 

8 Date of birth 
practical training under the Chartered Accountants 
Regulations 

4 Nationality . 
8 Period of residence in India 

5 Educational Qualifications | 
9 If not an Indian citizen , please state whether certificate 6 Period of residence in India 
of Indian Domicile has been obtained 

7 It not an Indian citizen , please state whether certificato 
10 . Permanent residential address 

of Indian Domicile has been obtained 
11. Professional address 

8 Permanent residential address 
12 . Present residential address 

9 Professional address 
13 Occupation in full 

10. Present resıdential address 
14 Place or places of business in India I 

Il Membership Number or RA Enrolment Number prior 

to removal 
15 Whether the applicant is in charge of the place on 

places mentioned at 14 If not, the namc (s) and 12 Reasons for and date of removal I 
membership number (s ) of the member (s ) of the Insti- 13 Occupation in full 
tute who is (are ) in charge of that ( those) pluce (s) and 

14 Place or places of business in India $ 
his (their ) address (es) 
16 If the applicant is a paid assistant to a Chartered Ac- 1 ) . Whether the applicant is in charge of the place or placc 

mentioned at 11 If not, the name(s) and meinbershit 
countant in practice or in a firm of such Chartered Ac 

number (s) of the member (s ) of the Institute who i. 
countants, name of thc Chartered Accountant in prac 
tice or the firm and from which date . 

(arc ) in charge of that ( those) place (s) and his (their , 

addiess( es) 
17 If the applicant holds a salaried employment other than 

16 Iſ the applicant is a paid assistant under a Charterec 
that covered by 16 above , full particulars thereof 

Accountant in practice or in a firm of such Charterec 
18 Whether the applicant intends to practise as a Charter 

Accountants, name of the Chartered Accountant ir 
ed Accountant under the Chartered Accountant Act, 

practice or the firm and from which date 
1949 

17 If the applicant holds a salaried employment other thai 
19 . Whether the applicant intends to continue the engago 

that covered by 16 above , full particulars thereof 
ment at 16 or 17 above in addition to practice 

18 Whether the applicant intends to practise as a Charter 
20 . Whether the applicant is engaged in any other business 

ed Accountant under the Chartered Accountants Act 
or occupation not covered by 16 or 17 above If so , full 

1949 
particulars thereof 

19 Whether the applicant intends to continue the engage 
21 Whether the applicant was at any time debat red from 

ment at 16 or 17 above in addition to practice 
practising as an accountant and if so , the reason and 

20 Whether the applicant is engaged in any other busincs 
period of suspension 

or occupation not covered by 16 or 17 above ; if so , ful 
2 . I hereby undertake that if my name is entered in the 

particulars thereoſ 
Register, I shall be bound by the provisions of the Chatter 

21 Whether the applicant was at any time debarred fron 
ed Accountants Act, 1949 and the Regulations framed - 

practising as an accountant and if so , the reason and 
thereunder or that may hereafter from time to timebe made 

period of suspension . 
pursuant to the said Act 

2 I hereby undertake that if my naine is restored on the 
3 (1) I also send herewith a sum of Rs 

being 

Register and if dmitted as a member of the Institute, 
iny entrance fee of Rs 

and annual meinbership 

will be bound by the provisions of the Chartered Account 
fee Rs. for the year 

ants Act, 1949, and the Regulations framed thereunder o 
( 11 ) A sum of Rs 28 is also forwarded for the annual 

that may hereafter from tumc to time be made pursuant to 
Certificate of Practice for the period ending 30th June 

the said Act 
3 (1) I also send herewith a sum of Rs 

beine 
(ui) A sum of Rs 6 is also forwarded as annual subscrip 

the (a ) balance of entrance fee of Rs 

, ( b) th 
tion for the benefit of the Regional Council 

ariears on account of the annual fee of Rs | , ( c) thg 
Place 

restoiation fee of Rs 25 and (d ) the annual membership fe 
Date : 

of Rs 

for the year 
Yours faithfully , (11) A sum of Rs 28 is also forwarded for the annua 

Signature Certificate of Practice . 


330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1969 


PART III — SE0.4 


(iii ) A sum of Rs. 6 is also forwarded for the annual 
subscription to the Regional Council . 
Place : 
Date : 

Yours faithfully , 

Signature 
* Applicants are requested to produce evidence of their 
age. 

Original diplomas , Certificates and / or other documents 
or attested copies thereof, in support of the qualifications 
claimed must be sent with the application . 

tOriginal Notification removing the name of the member 
should be sent. 

ŞIf there be more than one place of business , principal 
place of business may also be indicated . 


(1) Population under the jurisdiction of the 

local authority for each of the years. 
(8 ) Period during which the applicant may 

have been in practice as a Chartered Ac 

countant. 
(h ) Original certificate, balance sheets and / or 

other documents or attested copies thercof, 
in support of the above experience or parti 

culars, are enclosed , 
2 . (i) I send herewith Rs. 200 being my entrance fec as 

2 (i ) I send herewith Rs 9001 
a Fellow of the Institute . 

( ii ) A sum of Rs. 55 is also forwarded herewith being the 
balance of the annual membership fee, due as a Fellow of 
the Institute. 

Yours faithfully, 
Place : 
Date : 

* Delete which is not applicable. 


FORM " 4 " 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

( Einblem ) 

Certificate of Membership 
This is to certify that ..... ... .. .....of... ..... ........was admit 
ted as an Associate of the Instilute on the ......... day of...... 
19 .. . ... 

Given by the Council under the Common Seal of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , this .............. 
day of. ... ... ...... 19 
(Seal) 

President 
Secretary 


FORM " 6 " 

Membership No............. 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

(Emblem ) 

Certificate of Membership 
This is to certify that... .. so. ...... .. ..... ..... .... . of. 

... ... .. ... was admitted as a Fellow of the 
Institute on the.. ... . .. .. ... .. . .. ... ....... .......day of.. .. . .. .. .. .. .... . 


19 


. 


Given by the Council under the Common Seal of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , this .. ......... 
...... ..... day of ... ..... 

- .. .. ... . 19 
(Seal) 

President 
Secretary 


FORM " 5 " 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
Form of application for entry in the Register as Fellow of 

The Institute ol Chartered Accountants of India 
Το 
The Secretary to the Council of thc Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India , New Delhi. 


Sir , 


I beg to apply that iny name be entered in the Register 
as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India . I hereby declare that I am not subject to any of the 
disabilities stated in section 8 of the Chartered Accountants 
Act, 1949. I have been in continuous practice in India 
since . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Required particulars are as follows: — 
(1 ) Name : 
( 2 ) Number and Date of 

admission as Associatc : 
(3 ) Professional address : 
(4 )* ( A ) Whether practising independently or as a partner 

of a firm of practising inembers of the Institute , 
and if so , state the period for which acting as such : 


FORM " 7" 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED) ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
Form of application for the issue of a Certificate of Practice 
To 
The Secretary to the Council of the Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India . 
Sir, 

have already sent * 
I 

- - - a cheque / draft No.......... 
am enclosing 
dated . ... ... .. ... ... ... ... for Rs... ... . .. . . ... .. towards the fee for 
the Certificate of Practice for the period / year ending 30th 
June , which may be issued to me at an carly date. 

+ 2 . I declare that I am not engaged in any other business 
or occupation besides the profession of accountancy. If and 
when I intend to be so engaged , I shall obtain the prior 
permission of the Council. 
+ 3 . I am engaged in other occupation as........ .. 

... ... ..... and propose to continue to be so 
engaged in addition to the practice of accountancy for which 
the permission has already been obtained /applied for vide 
their /my letter No...... ... ... .. .... .. .dated . .. ... ... 

4 . As and when I cease to be in practice I shall duly in 
form the Council as required by the Chartered Accountants 
Regulations, 1963 . 

15 . I hold the Centificate of Practice as Associate / Fellow 
for the period ending 30th Junc 

6 . I declare that I am ... ..... ... ........National 
Place : 
Date : 

Yours faithfully, 

Signature , 

Membership Number . 
* Delele words not applicable. 
+ Delete the para not applicable . 


. . . . . . . . . 


or 


* ( B )(i) Clauses of sub -regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 5 

under which the admission is sought : 
(ii) Name and address of the employer /organisation : 
( iii) Particulars of experience : 

(a ) Designation 

[ If in Government service , the Class , Grade, 

Rank and other details may be given ). 
(b ) Detailed nature of duties. 
(c) Period . 
(d ) Paid -up capital for each of the years, 
(c) Turn -over for each of the years, 


PART IIR SEQ. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


331 


the. . . . . ! ! ! 


I .. . . . . . 


19 


. 


FORM " 8 " 

FORM " 11" 
Membership No................ 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED) ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

Form of nonination of a candidate for election to the 

Council of the Institute of Charlered Accountants of 
(Emblem ) 

India 
Certificate of Praclice 

We, thc undersigned Meinbers of the Institute of 
This is to certify that...... ....... ................of. . ........ ....., Chartered Accountants of Iudia , bcing qualilied to vote in 
F .C .A . is entitled to practise as a Chartered Accountant. 

the election of members to the Council of the Institute by 
A . C . A . 

. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . constituency, 
This Certificate is valid from the . ........ ...... ...day of...... 

do hereby nominate 

who is Fellow of the Institute 
........ ..... . 19 ... ... ... to the 30th day of June 19 . ..... 

belonging to that constituency, as a candidate for the elec 
inclusive , and thereafter subject to renewal from time to 

tion to be held in the year 19 
time. 

1. Signature of proposer 
Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of Enrolment No. 
Chartered Accountants of India , this.. ..... . ... .. ..day of.. .... Address 
. . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . . 

2 . Signalure of seconder 
(Seal) 

Enrolment No. 
President Address 
Secretary 

. ... .... ....being a Fellow of the Institute 
belonging to the.. .. . .. .. . . .. .. .. .. ..constituency , agree to stand 

for the election by the constituency to be held in the year 
FORM " 9" 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

I send herewith the fee of Rs. 200 to the Council by a 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

Demand Draft on . 
(Emblem ) 

Signature of candidate . 
Membership No ... .. . ...... . 

Address . 
Received with thanks from Shri..... .. 

Dated this. .. .. . . .. . ...... ... .. day of..... 
the sum of Rupecs. . ... . .. .. .. . . .. . . only on account of the an 
nual membership fce , annual certificate fee and annual 
Regional Council fee , for the year 19....... 

SCH . A ( 10 ) 
The Certificate of Practice granted to him on the day 

FORM " 12 " 
of. ....... ... .. ... 19 ... ... is hereby renewed up to and inclusive 

Form of Complaint 
of 30th of June 19 

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE INSTITUTE OF 
By the authority of the Council, CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF INDIA 
Placc : 

Section 21 
Date : 

Between 
Secretary 

Petitioner 

And 
FORM " 10 " 

Respondent 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Petitioner s address : 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

Respondent s address : 
Particulars of Offices and Firms 

Particulars of complaint in 
1. Name of Firm / Trade name of Chartered Accountant in paragraphs consecutively numbered . 
practice. 

Particulars of cvidence oral and 
2 . Name(s) of the Proprietor / Partners of the firm with documentary if any, to substantiate 
his / their membership number (s). 

the complaint. 
3 . * Date on which the partnership was entered into . 

Signature 
4 . Date on which the firm was started . 

VERIFICATION 
5 . Address of the Head Office of the firm /Chartered AC 

I, . . . ... . . 
countant in practice , 

. . the petitioner do here . 

by declare that what is stated above is true to the best of 
6 . * Addresses of the Branch Offices of the firm /Chartered 

my information and belief. 
Accountant in practice, if any , 
7 . * The dates on which the branch offices were opened . 

Verified today the. . ..... .. . .. . .. .... .. day of.. ... ... ... .. . .. .. 

19 .. .. . .at. . . . . . . . . 
8 . Name of the member with the membership number 
who is in charge of each of the offices, i. e., head office 

Signature 
and branch offices. 

FORM " 13 " 
Whether any of the members mentioned in 8 above are 

Roll No.... ........ . 
incharge of any other office of a Chartered Accountant 
in practice or a firm of such Chartered Accountants THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
and whether any of them are engaged in a full-time 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
or part-time occupation elsewhere . It so , full particulars 

(Emblem ) 
may be given . 

Preliminary Examinalion Certificate 
10 . * Name(s) of the Member (s) of the Institute with 
membership number(s) who is / are working as paid 

This is to certify that. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . .. ... .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
assistant(s) in the firm / under the Chartered Accountant 

has passed ( 

the Preliminary Examination 
in practice and date of joining of each member. 

held by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India in 

the month of. ... . ........ ....... . 19 
Place : 
Date : 

Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India , this.... ..... ... day of. ..... . .. 
Signalure 
of the Proprietor /Partner of the 

firm with the membership number (Seal) 
* Delete, if inapplicable. 

Secretary 


. 


. 


. 


19 .. ..... 


. . . . 


. . . . 


932 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 

[ Part III - Što. 4 
= * = = - 

- = 
SCH . A ( 11) 

changes that may occur in the information furnished above, 
FORM " 14 " 

during the period of my training for the purposes of the 
Roll No...... .. .. 

Chartered Accountants Regulations , 1963. 

Place : 
THE INSTITUTE OF CIIARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

Date : 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

Signature of the 
(Emblein ) 

Articled or Audit Clerk 
Intermediate Examination Certificato 

Applicants are required to produce evidence of their 
This is to certify that. ..... ..... .. .. ... .. ...of.. .. 

age . 
has passed ( 

the Intermediate Examination 
held by the Institutc of Chartered Accountants of India 

+Original diplomas, certificates and / or documents or at 

tested copies thereof , in support of the qualifications claim 
in the month of.. .... . ..... .. ... ... . 19 .... .... 

ed must be sent with thc application . 
Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India , this... ...............day of 
. . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . ... . . 

FORM " 17 " 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
(Seal) 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
Secretary 

(For use when the Articled Clerk is of full age ) 
FORM " 15 " 

Articles of apprenticeship made the .......... ........day of 

.. ... ... one thousand nine hundred and ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Roll No... 

between . ... ... ... ... .. of .. . . ... . .. ... .. . .. (hereinafter called the 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Employer ) of the first part, " I. ... ... ... ... .. ..., the Chartered 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

Accountant in practice / partner of Messrs .. .. .. ... ... .. ... ... ., 

Chartered Accountants in practice , employing the Em 
Final Examination Certificate 

ployer of the first part (hereinaftcr called the second Em 
This is to certify that ... .. .... . .......... ..... of . 

ployer ) of the second part] and ....... ....... ........ (hereinafter 
has passed the Final Examination held by the Institute of called the Articled Clerk ) of the second / * third part . 
Chartered Accountants of India in the month of ..... . .. ....... Witness as follows, that is to say : — 
19 

1. In consideration of the covenants by the Articled Clerk 
Given under thc Common Seal of the Institute of hercafter contained t [and of the premium of Rs.. ............ 
Chartered Accountants of India , this ... . ..... . .. . ..... day of paid by the Articled Clerk ( the receipt whereof the Employer 
. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . ... . . . .. . . 19 . . . . . . . . 

doth hereby acknowledge )] the Employer agrees to take the 

Articled Clerk as his Articled Clerk for the term of... . .... .. .. 
(Scal) 

years from the. ..... .... ....... ... ....... day of ...... ......... .... .. 
Secrelary one thousand nine hundred and ......... 

[ * 1A . The second Employer of the second part agrees to 
FORM " 16 " 

permit the Employer of the first part to train the Articled 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Clerk in his office / firm .] 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

2 . The Articled Clerk of his own frce will binds him 

self Articled Clerk to the Employer to serve him for and 
Statement of parliculars to be submilted for registration as 

during and unto the full end and term of.... ..... ..... .years . 
an articled or audit clerk 
1. Name of clerk in full (in capital letters). 

3 . The Articled Clerk covenants with the Employer ag 

follows: — 
2. Father s name. 

(a ) That he will at all times during the said term 
8 , Residential address . 

diligently and faithfully serve the Employer as 
4 . Nationality. 

his Articled Clerk in the practice of profession of 
5 . * Date of birth . 

Accountancy. 
6 . + Educational Qualifications with the dates of passing 

(b ) That he will not at any time during the said term 
the Examination . 

destroy, cancel, obliterate, spoil , cmbezzle , spend , 

make away with or take copies of books, papers, 
7 . (i) Enrolment No. as student member of the Coaching 

plans , documents, moneys, stamps or chattels of 
Organisation . 

the Employer , his personal representatives or 
(ii ) In case not yet enrolled , state the date of applica 

assigns or of his partner or partners or of any of 
tion made to the Director of Studios, Coaching 

his clients or employers which shall be deposited 
Board for the purpose . 

in his hands or which shall come to his care, 
8 . Name and address of the employer under whom sery 

custody or possession or allow any of the said 
ing. 

goods to be so treated by others if he can by the 

exercise of reasonablc care prevent it. 
9 . Name and address of the previous employer (s ) and the 
period of service under him or them either as an arti 

That he will at all times kcep the secrets of the 
cled clerk or as audit clerk or as both , ( Dates of com 

Employer and his partner or partners and of his 

and their clients and employers and will not 
mencement and termination to be given ). 

divulge the names and affairs of such clients and 
10 . Articles or Audit Service Registration No., if any . 

employers . 
11, Date of commencement of articles or audit service . 

That he will readily and cheerfully obey and 
12. (a ) Whether studying for any courses and if so give 

execute the lawful and reasonable commands of 
full particulars as to whether applicd for Council s 

the Employer and will not depart or absent him 
permission . 

self from the service or employ of the Employer 

at any time during the said term without his con 
In case permission has already been obtained , 

sent or that of his partners first obtained , but will 
quote letter No. and date wherein the Council s 

at all tiines during the said term conduct himself 
permission was conveyed . 

with all due diligence, honesty and propriety . 
13 . (a ) Whether engaged in any other occupation or busi 

(e) That he will at all times well and faithfully serve 
ness and if so give full particulars. 

the Employer as an Articled Clerk ought to do in 
(b ) If permission has already been granted , quote the 

all things whatsoever . 
letter No. and date . 

(f) That he will make good and fully indemnify the 
I declare that the particulars given above are truc and 

Employer for any loss or damage suffered or 
correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and I under 

sustained by him by the Articled Clerk s misbeha 
take to intimate to the Council within thirty days, any 

viour or improper conduct. 


OD 


( b ) 


PART III — SEQ. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


333 


behalf of thouardian of the 


of the Premium Spectively 


4 . The Employer covenants with the Articled Clerk as 
follows : — 
(a ) That he will by the best ways and means in his 

power and to the utmost of his skill and knowledge 
instruct or cause to be instructed the Articled 
Clerk and aſſord him such reasonable opportuni. 
ties and work as may be required to enable him 
to acquire thc art, science and knowledge of AC 

countancy 
(b ) That his professional practice for that of his em - 

ployer (s )] is his * for their main occupation and 
is suitable for the purpose of enabling him to 

carry out the obligations referred to in (a ) above . 
( c ) That he will at the expiration of the said terın use 

his best means and cndeavours at the request, cost 
and charges of thc Articled Clerk to cause the 
Articled Clerk to be admitted as a member of the 
Institute : Provided always that the Articled Clerk 
shall have well and faithfully served his intended 
clerkship and shall have passed the required exa 
minations and in all respects properly qualified 

himself to be admitted as such . 
( d )(i) That if the Employer shall die during the said 

term , his legal representative t [shall return the 
premium to the extent not already refunded to 
thc Articled Clerk and shall grant to the Articled 
Clerk a certificate of service in the appropriate 
Form for the expired period of the articles . 
That if the Employer shall ceasc to practise as an 
accountant or shall in any way become incapable 
of continuing the intended employment of the 
Articled Clerk during the said term , he shall, 
Hat the option of the Articled Clerk , either return 
the premium to the extent not already refunded , 
or without any further expense to the Articled 
Clerk ,] make the necessary arrangements as far 
as practicable for the completion of the residue 
of the term as Articled Clerk with some other 
member entitled to train Articled Clerks and grant 
the Articled Clerk , the certificate of service in the 
appropriate Form for the expired period of 

articies. 
+ [(e) That he agrees to refund within the period stipu 

lated under the Regulations the entire preinium 
received from or on behalf of the Articled Clerk 
in such instalment as he might deem fit subject 
to satisfactory service and good conduct of the 

Articled Clerk .] 
5 . These articles are subject to the Chartered Accoun 
tants Regulations as may be in force from time to time. 

In witness whereof the . parties have hereunto set their 
hands and seals the day and year first above written , 

Signed , Scaled and Delivered 


the Guardian ) of the second / * third part, guardian of 
. .. . .... .. .. .... (hereinafter called the Articled Clerk ) of the 
third / * fourth part. 
Witness as follows, that is to say : 

1. In consideration of the covenants by the Articled 
Clerk and Guardian respectively her nafter contained 
Hand of the premium of Rs... .. ....... ... .. ... paid by or 011 
behalf of the Articled Clerk (the receipt whereof the Em 
ployer doth hereby acknowledge)] the Employer agrees to 
take the Articled Clerk as his Articled Clerk for the teriu 
of. .... ... ... ... ...years from the ... .. . ... .. . day of ... ... ... . 
one thousand nine hundred and .. ... ... .. ... ... 

* TIA . The second Employer of the second part agrees to 
permit thc Employer of the first part to train thc Articled 
Clerk in his oflice -ſirm .] 

2 . The Articled Clerk of his own free will and with the 
consent of the Guardian binds himself Articlcd Clerk to 
the Employer to serve him for and during and unto the full 
end and term of.. . ... .. ... ... ... . years . 

3 . The Articled Clerk covenants with the Employer as 
follows : 
(a ) That he will at all times during the said term 

diligently and faithfully serve the Employer as 
his Articled Clerk in the practice of profession of 
Accountancy. 
That he will not at any time during the said term 
destroy, cancel, obliterate , spoil, embezzle , spend , 
make away with or take copies of books , papers, 
plans, docuinents, moneys , stamps or chattels of 
the Employer, his personal representatives or 
assigns or of his partner or partners or any of his 
clients or employers which shall be deposited in 
his hands or which shall come to his care, custody 
or possession or allow any of the said goods to 
be so treated by others if he can by the exercise 
of reasonable care prevent it. 
That he will at all times keep the secrets of the 
Employer and his partner or partners and of his 
and their clients and employers and will not 
divulge the names and affairs of such clients and 

cmployers . 
(d) That he will readily and checrfully obey and 

execute the lawful and reasonable commands of 
the Employer and will not depart or absent him 
self from the service or employ of the Employer 
at any time during the said term without his con 
sent or that of his partners first obtained , but 
will at all times during the said term conduct 
himself with all thc diligence , honesty and pro 

priety. 
:) That he will at all times well and faithfully serve 

the Employer as an Articled Clerk ought to do in 

all things whatsoever , 
(f) That he will make good and fully indemnify the 

Employer for any loss or damage suffered or sus 
tained by him by the Articled Clerk s misbeha 

viour or improper conduct. 
4 . The Guardian covenants with the Employer as fol 
lows: - 
That he will indemnify the Employer or his partner 

or partners and all or any of them in case the 
Articled Clerk shall act contrary to the last-men 
tioned covenant and the Employer or his partners 

shall suffer thereby any loss, damage or prejudice . 
5 . The Employer covenants with the Articled Clerk and 
the Guardian as follows: — 
(a ) That he will hy the best ways and means in his 

power and to the utmost of his skill and know 
ledge instruct or cause to be instructed the Articl 
cd Clerk and afford him such reasonable op 
portunities and work as may be required to en 
able him to acquirc the art, science and knowledge 

of Accountancy. 
) That his professional practice * for that of the 

second cmployer ) is his * [or their ]main occupa 
tion and is suitablc for the purpose of enabling 
him to carry out the obligations referred to in (al 
above . 


by 


in the presence of 

Signed , Sealed and Delivered 


by 


in the presence of 

To be deleted where the cmployer is not cmployed by 
a Chartered Accountant in practice or by a firm of such 
Chartered Accountants. 

+ To be deleted where no premium is charged . 


FORM " 18 " 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
(For use where the Articled Clerk is a Minor) 
Articles of Apprenticeship made the. .. .. . .. . .... .......day of 

... . . ... ... .. one thousand nine hundred and .. ... .. ... . 
between .. ... ... ..... .. ... .Of.. ... ... . . .. ...... . (hereinafter called the 
Employer ) of the first part, * .. .. . .... ..., the Chartered Ac 
countant in practice / partner of Messrs ... ...... 
Chartered Accountants in practice , employing the Em 
ployer of the first part (hereinafter called the second Em 
ployer ) of the second part ],. . .. ... .. . ... .. (hereinafter called 


+ 


334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


( PART 111 - SNO. 4 


1hLW111 


Front 


(c ) That he will at the expiration of the said term * And whereas the Employer has paid to the New Ein 

use his best means and endcavours at the request , ployer Rs... .. .... .. . ..out of the prcinium received by the 
cost and charges of the Articled Clerk and the Employer under the said Articles. 
Guardian or either of them to cause the Articled 

* And whereas thc Articled Clerk has paid the New Em 
Clerk to be adınitted as a member of the Insti 

ployer the sum of Rs... .. ... ... ... ... ..by way of further pre 
tute : Provided always that the Articled Clerk 
shall have well and faithfully served his intended 

mium . 
clerkship and shall have passed the required exa Now this deed of assignment witnesseth as follows : - 
minations and in all respects properly qualified 

1. The Employer hereby assigns the said Articles of Ap 
himself to be admitted as such . 

prenticeship from the. .. . ... . .. . .. .. . .day of .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. 19. .. .. . 
(d )(i) That if the Employer shall die during the said and all his interest therein and the benefit of all cove 

term his legal representative shall return the nants therein contained to the New Employer to hold the 
premium to the extent not already refunded to sanie for all the residue unexpired of the said term of 
the Articled Clerk and shall grant to the Articled 

. .. ... .... ,ycars. 
Clerk a certificate of service in the appropriate 

2 . The New Employer covenants with the Employer, 
Form for the expired period of the articles. 

and the Articled Clerk and with each of them separately : 
( ii ) That if the Employer shall cease to practise as an 

(a ) That he will take the Articled Clerk as his Articl. 
accountant or shall in any way become incapable 

ed Clerk for the unexpired residue of the said termi 
of continuing the intended employment of the 

in order that he may complete his studies and ac 
Articled Clerk during the said term he shall 
Hat the option of the Articled Clerk cither return 

quire the art , science and knowledge of Ac 

countancy. 
the premium to the extent not already refunded 
or without any further expense to the Articled 

(b ) That he will observe and perform all the cove. 
Clerk ) make necessary arrangements as far as 

nants in the said Articles contained and on the 
practicable for the completion of the residue of 

part of the Employer to be observed and perform 
the term as Articled Clerk with some other mem 

ed in like manner in all respects as if the New 
ber entitled to train Articlcd Clerks and grant the 

Employer were therein named instead of the Em 
Articled Clerk the certificate of service in the ap 

ployer and will keep the Employer indemniſied 
propriate Form for the expired period of articles. 

from the same and from all actions , claims or de 
+ [(e) That he agrees to refund within 

mands in respect thereof. 

the period 
stipulated under the Regulations, the entire pre 

That his professional practice is his main occupa 
mium received from or on behalf of thc Articled 

tion and is suitable for the purpose of enabling 
Clerk in such instalments as he might deem fit 

him to carry out the obligationis referred to in 
subject to satisfactory service and good conduct of 

(a ) and (b ) above. 
the Articled Clerk .] 

3 . The Articled Clerk covenants with the New Ein 
6 . These articles are subject to the Chartered Accoun - ployer 
tants Regulations as may be in force from time to time. 

(a ) That the Articled Clerk shall diligently and faith 
In witness whercof the parties have hereunto set thcir 

fully serve the New Employer as his apprentice 
hands and seals the day and year first above written . 

in his profession of Accountancy for all the residue 
Signed , Sealed and Delivered 

now unexpired of the said term . 

( b ) That he will observe and perform all the cove 
in the presence of 

nants in the said Articles contained and on his 
Signed , Sealed and Delivered 

part to be performed in like manner in all respects 

as if the New Employer were therein named in 
by 

stcad of the Employer. 
in the presence of 

4 . This Deed of Assignment is subject to the Chartered 
* To be deleted where the Employer is not employed by Accountants Regulations ay may be in force from time to 
a Chartered Accountant in practice or by a firm of such time. 
Chartered Accountants. 

In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their 
+ To be deleted where no premium is charged . 

respective hands the day and year ſirst above written . 

Executed by 
FORM " 19" 

in the presence of 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS in thc presence of ļ " The Emplover of the First Part. 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
(For use where Articles are assigned ) 

Executed by 

" The Articled Clerk " of the Second 
ASSIGNMENT OF ARTICLES made the ... 

in the presence of ſ Part. 
day of . . ... . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . .one thousand fine hundred 
and . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . between . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . of .. . . . . . .. . 

" The New Employer" of the Third 
(hereinafter called “ the Employer" ) of the first part,... .. .... 

Executed by 

Part. 
.... ....... .(hereinafter called " the Articled 
Clerk " ) of the second part and........... .. . ... ..... .Of.. ... .. .. 

" To be deleted where no premiuin is charged . 
..... ....... carrying on the business of. 
. . . . . . . . . . . .. at. .. .. .. .. . (herein 

FORM " 20 " 
after called " the New Employer" ) of the third part 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
Whereas by Articles of Apprenticeship dated .. ........... 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
and made between the Employer of the first part and the 
Articled Clerk of the second part, the Articled Clerk was 

(For use where the Articles are assigned and where the 

(For use where in 
bound apprentice to the Employer in the practice of pro 

Articled Clerk is a minor) 
fession of Accountancy for a term of.......... . ... .years from ASSIGNMENT OF ARTICLES made the. ..... ...... 
the . .. . . . .. .. . ... .. .... day of.... .... 

..... ... .. . ... one thousand nine hundred and 
19 .. . ....... . 

. . .. . . between . .. .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. of. . . .. ........ . . . . . ... . . . . (here 
And whereas it has been agreed that the Articled Clerk inafter called “ the Einployer " ) of the first part,....... ... .. . .. 
shall serve the unexpired residue of the said term with the of. ... . ... ... .. ... (hereinafter called guardian of the Articl 
New Employer, being a member of the Institute entitled ed Clerk ) of the second part and . .. . .... .. ...... .... . .... of. ... ., 
to train Articled Clerks , and the Employer has agreed to . . . . . . . . 

.. .... .... carrying on the business of.. .... ..... . 
assign the said Articles of Apprenticeship to the New Em 

... ....... . . at. ... .. ... . .. ... (hereinafter called 
ployer , 

" the New Employer of the third part. 


by 


Part III - SE0 . 41 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA , JUNE 22, 1903 


338 


Whereas by Articles of Apprenticeship , dated ... . .. .... . ... 

FORM " 21" 
and made between the Employer of the first part, the 
Guardian of the second part, the dilileul Clerk was bound 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTEREI) ACCOUNTANTS 
apprentice to thic Employer in the practice of profession of 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
Accountancy for a term of. ... ...... years from the. ....... ... . .. .. 

(Form of Supplementary Deed of Articles ) 
day of.... ....... ....... 19 .. ..... 

Articles of apprenticeship made the ... ... . ...... .. ...... day 

of. ...... ........ one thousand ninc hundred and. .. . ........ 
And whereas iç has been agreed that the Articled Clerk between ............ .... .of.. .... . ... .. ...... (hereinafter called the 
shall serve thc unexpired residue of the said term with the Employer ) of the first part and * [... . . ... ... ... .. ... ... .., the 
New Employer being a member of the Institute entitled Chartered Accountant in practice / partner of Messrs. .. .... .. 
to train Articlcd Clerks and the Employer has agreed , with . .. . ... 

. . . . . . . . . . 

.. .. .. . .. .... ..., Chartered Accountants in practice , 
the consent of the Guardian , to assign the said Articles of employing the Employer of the first part (hereinafter called 
Apprenticeship to the New Employer . 

the second Employer ) of the second part ), .. ..... . ..............., 

(hereinafter called the Articled Clerk ) of the second / * third 
And whereas the Employer has paid 10 the New En - dart. SUPPLEMENTAL to the Articles of Apprenticeship 
ployer Rs... ........... . out of the premium received by the made the. .... .. .. . . ....between the abovementioned parties 
cmployer under the said Articles . 

for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
And whereas the Articled Clerk has paid the New Em 

Witness as follows, that is to say : 
ployer the sum of Rs.. ........ ......by way of further pre 1. Whereas the aboverncntioned Articles have expircd 
mium , 

on the.. ... ... ... .......... ..and the Articled Clerk has taken 

more leave of absence during the said period than is per 
Now this deed of assignment witnesscth as follows: — missible under the Chartered Accountants Regulations, it 

is hereby agreed by the parties nientioned above that.... ..... . 
1. The Employer hereby assigns the said Articles of Ap . . . . . . 

..... .... the Articled Clerk will serve for a 
prenticeship from the. .. .. .. . .....day of.. .. .. ... 19.. ... . and all further period of ... ... ... .. . . . ... . .. . .. from .. ... .. .. .. . 
his interest therein and the benefit of all covenants therein to . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . on the same terms and conditions as 
contained to the New Employer to hold the same for all are contained in the original decd of articles, dated . ... ....... 
the residue unexpired of the said term of. ..... .. .. ....... years . registered with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 

India , vide Registration Number ... . ........ .. . .... ... dated the 
2. The New Employer covenants with the Employer and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
the Guardian and with each of thein separately — 

2 . These articles are subject to the Chartered Accountants 

Regulations as may be in force from time to time. 
( a ) That he will take the Articled Clerk as his Articled In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their 

resione of the said term hands the day and year first above written . 
in order that he may complete his studies and 
acquire the art, science and knowledge of AC 

Signed , Sealed and Delivered 
countancy 

by 

in the presence of 
(b ) That he will observe and perform all the cove 
nants in the said Articles contained and on the 

Signed , Sealed and Delivered 
part of the Employer to be observed and perform - by 
ed in like manner in all respects as if the New in the presence of 
Employer were therein named instead of the Em 
ployer and will keep the Employer indemnified 

(Signed , Scaled and Delivered 
from the same and from all actions, claims or 

by 
deinands in respect thereof . 

in the presence of] 

Noten - Delete words not applicable. 
(c ) That his professional practice is his main occupa 
tion and is suitable for the purpose of enabling 

* To be deleted where the Emplover is not employed by 
him to carry out the obligations referred to in 

a Chartered Accountant in practice or by a firm of such 
(a ) and (b ) above. 

" Chartered Accountants. 
3 . The Guardian covenants with the New Employer 

FORM " 22" 
(a ) That the Articled Clerk shall diligently and faith 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
fully serve the New Employer as his apprentice 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
in his profession of Accountancy for all the residue 

Certificate of Service under Articles 
now unexpired of the said term . 

........... of... .... ...... .... ..... .. do hereby 
(b ) That he will observe and perforin all the cove 

certify that. . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .... . .. . . . . .. .. . . .. . served as an 

articled clerk under mc in accordance with the Chartered 
nants in the said Articles contained and on his 
part to be performed in like manner in all respects 

Accountants Regulations, for a period of ..... . .... .......... .. ... 

from . .. . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . .. , to .. . . . ..... .., that his progress 
as if the New Employer were therein named 
instead of the Employer . 

was satisfactory and that to the best of my knowledge he 

bears a good moral character. 
4 . This Deed of Assignment is subject to the Chartered I further certify that during the above -mentioned period 
Accountants Regulations, as may be in force from time to the articled clerk was given leave for... ... .. .... .. ... .days . 
time. 

* I did not charge any premium . 
In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their " I have refunded the cntire premium of Rs.... . ... . .... 
respective hands the day and year first above written . to the articled clerk in . ........ .. . .............. instalment / s. 

The articles were duly registered with the Council of the 
Executed by 

" the Employer " of the First Part Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , vide Registra 
in the presence of S 

tion No .... . .. .. ........ ... of.... ... . .. 

Place : 
Executed by " the Guardian " of the Second 

Date : 
in the presence of Part. 

(Signature) 
Executed by " thc New Employer " of the Third 

Name in block letters 
in the presence of ſ Part. 

Signature of articled clerk 
* To be deleted where no premium is charged . 

* Strike out what is not applicable, 


336 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


[ PART III – Sxo. 4 


, , , , , , 


44 TL 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. 


. 


FORM " 29" 

I also certify that his progress during thic period was 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED) ACCOUNTANTS satisfactory and that he bears a good moral character . 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

I further certify that during the above-mentioned period , 
Certificate of service under articles 

he was given leave for ...... .. . .. ..... days . 
( To be issued by the legal representative ) 

(Signature ) 
1,. .... .. . . ..... ........ ...... ., legal representative of the late 

Member of the Institute of 
. .. . .. .. .. .. . ... . .. .. .. of ... .. .. . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . do hereby Place : 

Chartered Accountants / Cost 
certify that to the best of my information .. ... .. .. 

Date : 

and IVorks Accountants of 
served as an articled clerk under the late . .. .. . .. ... 

India . 
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. ... ... in accordance with the Chartered 
Accountants Regulations , for a period of.. .... . ... 

Membership No. 
years.... ....... ..... ...... months and . ... .... .......... days from 

Signature of articled clerk 
. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . and that ac 
cording to the information supplied to me his progress was 

FORM “ 26 " 
satisfactory and he bcars a good moral character . 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
I further certify that according to the information sup 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
plied to me, during the above -mentioned period , thc articl 
ed clerk was given Icave for ....... ... ..... days by late......... 

Certificate of Audit Service 
I. ... .. . ... . 

.... ......... of... . . .... ... .. ... . ...... do hcre 
* No premium was received by the late....... ..... 

by certify that... . ... .. ......... . .. .. .. .. . . . . .. served as an audit 

clerk under mc in accordance with the Chartered AC 
* The entire premium of Rs.... .... ....... ...... received by 

countants Regulations, for a period of.. .. ... .. ....... ... . .. .. .... 
the late . .. .. .. .. . ........ .... has been refunded to the 

from . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .. to . . . .. . ... ....... , that his progress 
articled clerk in .... ................ ... ........ instalment / s. 

was satisfactory and that to the best of my knowledge he 
The articles werc duly registered with the Council of the bears a good moral character . 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , vide Registra - I further certify that during the above-mentioned period 
tion No.. . .. . . . .. . .... . .. .. of. . .. . .... .. . . 19 .. . .. . . 

the audit clerk was given leave for... ... ............days. " 

(Signature) 
Place : 

The audit service was duly intimated to the Council of 

Name in block letters the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , vide Re 
Date : 

Signalure of articled clerk gistration No... ...... .... ... ..... of. .... ........ 19 . .... .. . 
* Strike out what is not applicable. 

( Signature) 
FORM " 24 " Place : 

Namc in block letters 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS Date : 

Signature of audit clerk . 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
Certificate of Service under Articles 

FORM " 27 " 
(To be issued by a surviving partner ) 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
1, .. . .. . . .. . .... . ..... ......., of .. ... ... .. . .. . .. . . ..... ... . . ... ... who 

Certificate of Audit Service 
practised in partnership with the late .. ..... ......... ... . ... .... . 
do hereby certify that.. .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . served as an 

( To be issued by the legal representative ) 
articled clerk under the late . ...... ... . . ... .. . .. ... ... . . .. .. . in ac 

I,..... . .. . .. . .... ......, legal representative of the late 
cordance with the Chartered Accountants Regulations, for 

. .... .. .... do hereby certify that to the best 
a period of. . . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . . from . . . .. . .. . . . .. . .. . .to . . .. ...... . .. . .. . .. . , of my information ..... ...... 

. ... .... served as an 
that his progress was satisfactory and that to the best of my 

audit clerk under the late .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . in accord 
information hc bears a good moral character. 

ance with the Chartered Accountants Regulations , for a 
I further certify that during the above -mentioned period , 

period of. . . . . . . . . . . .. from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
the articled clerk was given leave for .. ... ... ..... days . 

and that according to the information supplied to me his 

progress was satisfactory and he bears a good moral charac 
*No premium was received by the late ............ .... ... ..... 

ter . 
* To the best of my information , the entire premium of 

I further certify that according to the inforınation sup 
Rs. .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . received by the late . . . . .. . ... . .. ... ... . has 

plied to me, during the above-mentioned period , the audit 
been refunded to the articled clerk in . .... .. .. . ... ... ... ... . ... .. 

clerk was given leave for ..... .... ... ........ days by the late 
instalment / s. 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The articles were duly registered with the Council of The audit service was duly registered with the Council 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , vide Re of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India , vide 
gistration No.. ..... ....... ........ of .... ... ..... 19. ...... 

Registration No........ ..... .. .. .. .... of ............... 19 ....... 
(Signature ) 

(Signature ) 
Place : Signalure of articled clerk Date : 

Name in block letters 
Date : Name in block letters Place : 

Signature of audit clerk 
* Strike out what is not applicable . 

FORM “ 28 " 
FORM " 25 " 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

Certificate of Audit Service 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

( To be issued by a surviving partner ) 
(Certificate of service to be issued by the Head of the De 
partment of the concern ) 

I,. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. ... . . ., of. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . who 

practised in partnership with the late .. .. . .... . 111 , . . . , . . . . , 
I.......... 

.. .... employed as... . .... ... do hereby certify that. .. .... . ... . .. ... . served as an audit 
by Messrs.. .. . ... ... 

..... .... do hereby certify that clerk under the late ......... ... ......... ..... in accordance with 
Shri. . . . .. . . . . . 

... .. . ...... worked under my the Chartered Accountants Regulations, for a period of 
supervision for a period of.. ......... ......... from .. ..... ....... ... ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . from . . . . . . , 
to . . . . . . . . .. ... .... and during this period he was given that his progress was satisfactory and that to the best of my 
training in . ........ 

..... .....Department(s). knowledge he bears a good moral character. 


. 


4 


4 


4 


4 


4 


4 


- 


1 


PART III - SEO. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


337 


of 


of 


I further certify that during the above mentioned period loss hc has passed the Internecite Examination of a Uni 
the judit clerk was given leave for 

days 

versity constituted by law in India or any other Univeisity 
The dudit service was duly registered with the Counul recognised by the Central Government of all examination 
of the Institute of Chanceled lccountınts of Indi , vide recognised by the Central Government as equivalent there 
Registration No 

of 19 

to 
Date 

(Signalure) 

Provided that a graduate or a person who has passed the 
Place : 

Name in block letters National Diploma in Commerce Lxamination held by thc 

All India Council for Technical Education or any other 
Signature of audit clerk 

person exempted under the Chartered Accountants Regula 
tions, 1949, shall be cxempted from passing the Preliminary 

Examination 
FORM " 29 
THF INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 2 Preliminary Examination admission fee — A candidate 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

for admission to the Prelınımary Fxamination shall pay a 

fee of twenty seven rupees 
( Emblem ) 
Management Accountancy Course 

Papers and syllabus for Preliminary Examination — A 

candidate for the Preliminary Examination shall be exa 
This is to certify that 

mined in the following subjects and shall ordinarily be 
has passed ( 

Part I and II of the Manage declared to hivc passed the Fxamination if he obtains at 
ment Accountancy Examination held by the Institute of onc sitting a minimum of 40 per cent of marks in each 
Chartered Accountants of India 

piper and 50 per cent of the total marks of all the papers 
Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India , this 

day of Paper (1) – English – One Paper - Three Hours- --100 
19 

Marks) 
(Seal) 

Secretary 

Precis Writing , Paraphrasing , Composition , Commercial 

Conespondence and Rcport Writing Questions to test the 
Form " 30 " 

candidate s knowledge of English and his power of expres 

sion will be asked The questions will be such as would test 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTFRED ACCOUNTANTS 

the candidate s imagination , reasoned thought and argu 
OF INDIA , NFW DELHI 

ment) 
( Emblem ) 

Paper ( 11) - Elements of Book Keeping - - (One Paper - Three 
Management Accountancy Course 

Hours --- 100 Marks) 
Part I 

Theory and practice of Double Entry Book keeping , 
This is to certify that 

Treatment of bad and doubtful debts, Depreciation , Me 
has passed ( the Management Accountancy 

thods of keeping and presenting Accounts, Manufacturing, 
Examination ( Part I) held by the Institute of Chartered Trading and Prolit & Loss Accounts, Balance Shects of 
Accountants of India in the month of 

19 

Solę Traders and Proprietary Concerns, and Bull Transac 

tions 
Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India , this 

day of Paper (112) - Elements of Economics and Modern Admi 
19 

nistration — (One Paper - - Two Sections- Three Hours 

100 Marks) 
(Seal) 

Secrelary 
NB _ The candidate mentioned above has also passed / 

Section 1-- Elements of Economics— (30 Marks) — Delini. 
has not so far passed Part II of the Management Accouni 

tion and Scope of Economics, Wint, Wealth , Theories of 

Value and Price , Production , Theory of Production , Na 
tancy Course 

tional Income, Theories of Rent, Wages and Interest 
Theory of Money and Exchange, Banks , and Direct and 

Indirect Taxation 
FORM " 31" 

Section 11 — Modern Administration — (50 Marks) The 
THE INSTITUTE OI CHARTERFD ACCOUNTANTS Indian Constitutioni relating to the powers , functions and 
OF INDIA , NEW DELHI 

duties of the Central Government, the Parliament , the 

State Governments , the State Legislatures, Cıvıl Services 
(Emblem ) 

(Part XIV ), Fundamental Rights ( Part III of the Indian 

Constitution ), and Directive Principles of State Policy 
Management Accountancy Course 

( Part IV ), Finance ( Part XII, Chapter I only), Trade , Com 
Part II 

merce and intercourse within the territory of India ( Part 

XIII) 
This is to certify that 
has completed the prescribed period of practical training Note - Questions on the reproductions of the provision 
in Management Accountancy and has passed the written of the constitution will only be asked It is not intended to 
test and in the interview in respect of the same 

test the knowledge of the candidate on the interpretation 
Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of and explanation of the various provisions 
Chartered Accountants of India , this 

day of 
19 

Paper (10 ) — Commercial Arithmetic (One Paper - - Three 

Hours - 100 Marks) 
( Seal) 

Secretary 
NB — The candidate mentioned above has also passed / 

Arthmetic , Rapid Calculations, ic , short methods of ad 
has not so far passed Part I of theManagement Accountancy 

dition and subtraction , division and multiplication ; Aver 
Course 

age Duc Date, Elementary principles and processes of 

Authmetic, Vulgar and Decimal Fractions, English and 
SCHEDULE B 

Metric System for Measurement of Length - Area 
PRFIIMINARY EXAMINATION 

Volume - Capacity -Weight - Time, Averages, Radio and 

Proportion , Percentages, Simple and Compound Interest , 
1 Admission to Preliminary Examination - No candi Present Worth and Discount, Profit and Loss , Stocks and 
date shall be admitted to the Preluninary Examination un - Shares; and Foreign Exchange 


of 


fum 


338 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[ PART III - SEO . 4 


Paper ( V )- - -Economic and Commercial Geography - -(One Payments and Income and Expenditure Accounts ; Account 
Papri- Three Blours - 100 Marks ) 

ing of Educational, Charitable and other institutions,manu 
The influence of physical environments and natural re . 

facturing, Trading and Profit and Loss Accounts and 

Balance Sheets . (At least one question will be asked on 
sources on economic development ; Location ; Conſiguration ; 
Drainage; Climatc ; Soil and Vegetation ; Agriculture ; 

thcory). 
Subsistence Farming; Commercialized and Mixed Farming ; Paper ( ii ) Accounting - -( Three Hours — 100 Marks) 
Dairying ; Horticulture ; Sericulture ; Plantation ; Adjust 
ment to animal life and forest vegetation ; Extractive Indus Partnership Accounts; Limited Company Accounts and 
tries; Quarrying : Mining ; Manufacture ; Markets ; Trans- Appropriation Accounts and Balance Sheets ; Valuation and 
port and Trade Routes by Land ; Sea and Air ; Ports and Treatment of Goodwill; System and Maintenance of Stock 
their Hinterland ; Stuples of World Trade; Conditions of Records and Valuation of Stock -in -trade; Nature and 
Production ; Climate and Soil Requirements ; Geographical Methods of Depreciation ; Capital and Revenue , including 
Products ; Methods of Production ; Mineral Products ; Ores deferred Revenue Expenditure ; Treatment of Bad and 
and Extraction of Minerals ; Use of Minerals ; and Manu Doubtful Debts ; Sinking Funds; Provisions; Reserves and 
facture. 

Reservc Funds; Simple Accounting Ratios of Manufactur 

ing , Trading and Profit and Loss Accounts . 
Man and his environments; Population and Population 
Movements: Distribution of Population in different regions: Paper (117 ) — Cost Accounts and Statistics - ( Three Hours) - - 
and Density of Population , ( The above topics to be studied 

100 Marks) 
with general reference for comparative purposes to the 
main geographical regions of the world and with particular 

Cost Accounts - Objects and Advantages of Costing; Ele 
reference to India and Pakistan ). 

ments of Cost; Books and Records to be maintained ; Pric 

ing of Materials; Recording and Control of Materials ; Rc 
The above particulars are intended as a general guide to quisitions; Bin Cards and Stores Ledgers ; Methods of Cost 
questions which inay be asked in each paper. 

ing and Appropriate Industries to which they are appli 

cable; Budgetary Control, 
INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATION 

Wastage , Shrinkage, Scrap, etc .; Recording of Labour ; 
4 . Admission to Intermediate Examination - No candi 

various Methods of payment of Wages ; Idle time; Charge 
date shall be admitted to the Intermediate Examination able Expenses : Overhead Charges inside and outside the 
unless hę — 

Factory ; Basis for allocation of overheads; Machine Hour 
(i) was admitted to the First Examination held under Rate; Standard Cost. 
the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949 , and has serv 
ed or is serving as an articled clerk or as an audit clerk , or 

Slalislics — Meaning and scope of Statistics; Fundamental 

Principles; Utility to other Branches of Arts and Science 
( ii ) is a graduate or has passed the National Diploma ini and particularly Trade and Commerce ; Limitations; 
Commerce Examination held by the All India Council for Methods of Investigations and their relative importance ; 
Technical Education or has passed the Preliminary Exami- Statistical Enquiry - Purpose and Utility ; Organisation and 
nation held under these Regulations / or the Chartered Ac Questionnaires; their types and their drafting: Tabular 
countants Regulations, 1949, and has completed such period Presentation of the Matters; Essentials of good tables ; Me 
of service either is an articlecl clerk or as an audit clerk thods of tabulation including Electric Tabulation ; Types 
or partly as an articled clerk and partly as an audit clerk , of Tables; Stubs and Captions. 
as is required for admission as a member , or is serving the 
last thirty months of articlcd scrvice or last sixty months of 

Averagcs; Meaning , different Types, Mean , Median and 
audit scrvice, as the case may bc, on the Ist day of May 

Mode and Weighted Averages ; Merits and Demerits of 
or 1st clay of November of each year for eligibility to the each type ; Moving Averages ; Statistical co -efficient for rela 
Examination that may be held in May or November , respec- tive Dispersion ; Skewness. 
tively : 

Sampling, Chance and Deliberate Sampling ; Law of 
Provided that a candidate who had entered into articles Statistical Regularity and Inertia of large numbers; Statis 
or audit service for the first time on or after 1st July 1956 . tical Error; Sources of Errors ; Relative and Absolute Errors ; 
shall not be adınitted to the Examination unless he pro 

Biased Errors; Fallacies and their causes; Accuracy 
duces a certificatc from the Director of Studies or the head Standard Adopted , Approximation . 
of the coaching organisation , by whatever naine designated , 
set up under the aegis of the Council, to the effect that he 

Paper ( iv ) Auditing — ( Three Hours - 100 Marks) 
has undergone a course of postal tuition satisfactorily for The Principles of Auditing including Audic Programme; 
a period of one year. 

Internal Audìt; Verification of Assets and Liabilities ; 

Technique of Auditing ; Test Checks; Auditing of Accounts 
Explanation — For the purpose of computing the period 

of Private Concerns and Partnership , Educational, Chari 
of practical training, six months service as an articled clerk 

table and other Institutions and Limited liability Compa 
shall be reckoned as one year s service as an audit clerk 
or vice versa , fractions of less than six months in the case 

nies ( excluding Divisible profits); Duties and Responsibili 
of articled service and one year in the case of audit scrvice, 

ties of Auditors. 
bcing ignored . 

Paper (V ) - -Mercantile Law and Company Law ( Three 
5 . Intermediate Examinalion Admission fee - A candi 

Houts — 100 Marks) 
date for admission to the Intermediate Exainination shall Law relating to Contracts; Sale of Goods and Partner 
pay a fee of fifty-two rupees. 

ship Acts; Negotiable Instruments Act ; Elements of Com 
6 . Papers and syllabus for the Intermediate Examina - 

pany Law (limited to Part VI, I and II Chapters contain 

Pony 
tion - A candidate for the Intermediate Examination shall my section 

ing sections 1 to 323 ). 
be examined in the following subjects and shall ordinarily Paper (vi) General Commercial Knowledge — ( Three 
be declared to have passed the Examination if he obtains 

Hours — 100 Marks) 
at one sitting a minimum of 10 per cent of marks in each 
paper and 50 per cent of total marks of all the pepers : 

Commercial Correspondence and Elements of Secretarial 

Practice ; Office and Counting House Routines; Commercial 
Paper (1)--- Accounting - ( Three Hours -- 100 Marks ) and Insurance Terms; Stock Exchange Terms and the 
The Theory and Practice of Single and Double Entry 

Practice in the Purchase and Sale of Shares , Securitics , etc .; 
Book -keeping and Accounts; Principal and Subsidiary 

the Purchase , Sale , Storage and Conveyance of Goods 
Books of Accounts ; Methods of keeping and presenting ac 

(Home, Import and Export ); the use of Hundies, Cheques, 
counts; the terms used in book -keeping and accounting 

Bills of Exchange and Bills of Lading ; Charter Parties, 
Bill Transactions; Accounts; Current and Average Due 

Railway Receipts ; Fire and Marine Insurance. (At least 
Date ; Self Balancing Ledgers; Goods on sale or return ; 

one question on Commercial Correspondence and one 
Hire -purchase and Instalment System ; Departmental and 

question on Secretarial Practice will be asked ). 

go 
Branch Accounts (Excluding foreign branches); Consign The above particulars are intended as a general guide to 
ment and Joint Ventures; Trial Balancc ; Receipts and questions which may be asked in each paper. 


PART 11 860. 41 


THE GAZETTK OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1983 


339 


FINAL EXAMINATION 

GROUP I- ADVANCED ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT 

ING 
7 idmission to Final Evamınalion - No candidate shall 
be admitted to the Final Exammnation unless her 

Paper (1) Advanced Accounting — ( 1 hree Hours-- - 100 
(1) has cither passed the Intermediate Examination under marks) 
these Regulations on the Interncdiate Examination or the 
Fust Examination under Chartered Accountants Regula Includiig knowledge of systems of accounting of com 
tions , 1949 , or is cxcmpted from passing the First Examınd mercial cntcrprises, Double Account System (with nefer 
tion under the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949 , ence to Electric Companies only) ; Educational, Charitable 
and 

and other Institutions, Manufacturing, Trading and 

Proſit and Loss und Appropriation Accounts, Balance 
( 11 ) has either completed such period of service as an 

Sheets , Partnership Acounts , Accounts of Limited Com 
articled clerk or as an audit clerk or partly as an articles 

paties, including Formation , Reorganisation , Reconstruc 
clerk and partly as an judit clerk as is required for admis 

tion , Amalgamation and Liquidation of Companies 
101 18 d member , or is serving the last twelve months of Puber (121 = Advanced Accounting - ( Three Hours- -- 100 
such period on 1st day of May of Ist diy of November of Marks 
each year, for eligibility to the Fxamination that may be 
held in May or November, respectively : 

Including knowledge of accounts of Bankıng companies, 
Provided that an interval of not less than eleven months Insurance Companies, Mining Companies , Collieries, 
shall have elapsed betwecu the date of the candidate s llolding and Subsidiary Conipanies, Accounts of Doctors, 
Passing the Intermediate LXmination and the commenco 

Lawyers Solicitors and Iccountants , Departmental and 
ment of the Final Examination : 

Branch Accounts, including Toreign Branches. Prepara 

tion of Accounts from Incomplete Records, Preparation of 
Provided furthei that al candidate who had entered into Financial Statements , their usc and interpreatation ; Use 
articles or audit service for the first time on ou after the 1st of accounting Ratios, including Solvency Ratios, Capital 
day of July 1956 and who desires to take both the Groups Ratios, Inventory Ratios and Composite Ratios; Elements 
of the Final Examination Logether shall not be admitted of Machine Accounting Government System of Account 
to the Examination unless he produces a certificate from ing 
the Director of Studies or the head of the coaching orga 
nisation , by whatever name designated , set up under the Paper (111) _ Taxation — ( Three Hours- 100 Marks) 
aegis of the Council, to the effect that he has undergone a 
course of postal tuition satisfactorily for a period of 

Law and Practice of income-tax and Estate Duty, includ 
eighteen months, 

ing practical problems 
Providcd , however , that such a candidate may be permit 

Paper (10 ) — Cost Accounts and Statistics ( Three Hours 
ted to take any one of the Groups of the Final Examination 

100 Marks) 
on his producing a certificatc from the Director or the 
head , to the effect that he has undergonc d postal tuition Costing : Objects and Advantages of Costing : Elements 
satisfactorily for a period of twelve months : 

of Cost, Books and Records to be maintained ; Pricing of 

Materials Recording and Control of Materials ; Requisi 
Provided further that such a candidate may be permit 

tions, Bm Cards and Stores Ledgers, Reconciliation of 
ted to take the remaining Group of the Final Examinationi Cost and Financial Accounts. Methods of Costing and 
on his producing a ceilincate from the Director of the Appropriate Industries to which they arc applicable ; 
hc. d , that he has undergone a course of postal tuition Budgctary Control , Control of Accounts , Graphic Pre 
satisfactorily for a further period of six months 

sentation ; Elcmcnts of Factory Organisation 
8 Final Examination admission fee - A candidate for ad Wastage, Shrinkage, Scrap , ctc ; Recording of Labour; 
mission to both the Groups or only one Group of the Final Various Methods of payment of Wages, Idle time; Charge 
Examination shall pay respectively a fce of seventyseven or able Expenses; Overhead Charges inside and outside the 
fiftytwo rupees 

Tactory ; Basis for allocation of overheads; Machine hour 

Rate ; Standard Costs , Dillerent Methods of Costing . 
9 . Final Lxamination lo be held prior to the 1st day of 
July 1964 . - ( 1 ) A candidate for the Final Examination , to Statistics : Meaning and Scope of Statistics, Fundamental 
be held before the first day of July 1961, shall be examined Principles ; Utility to other Branches of Arts and Science 
in the subjects comprised in the following two Groups and , and Particularly Trade and Commerce ; Limitations, 
shall be considered to have passed the Examination : Methods of Investigations and their relative importance , 

Statistical Enquiry - Purpose and Utility ; Organisation and 
(1 ) if he is declared to have passed in both thc groups Questionnaires; i heir į ypes and their Drafting. Tabular 

simultaneously or in one Group at one time and Presentation of the Matters ; Essentials of Goods tables , 
in the remaining Group at a subsequent examina Methods of Tabulation including Electric Tabulation 
tion , before the first day of July 1964 , or 

Types of Tables; Stubs and Captions. 
( ii) if he is declared to have passed in ofic Group Averages ; Meaning, Different Types, Mcan Median and 

under the Chartered Accountants Regulations, Mode and Weighted Averages , Merits and Demerits of 
1919 and in the remaining corresponding Group each Type : Moving Averages: Statisticat Caefficient for 
at an examination held before the first day of July Relative Dispersion , Skewness 
1964 , under these Regulations; or 

Sampling , Chance and Deliberate Sampling; Law of 
(111 ) if he is declared to have passed in one Group 

Statististical Regularity and Incrtia of large numbers: 
under the Chartered Accountants Regulations, Statistical Error: Sources of Errors : Relative at Alsoluta 
1949 and qubject to any direction to the contrarı 

Errors ; Biassed Errors. Fallacies and ther causes ; Accuracy 
issued by the Council , in the remaining corres - Standard adopted Approximation . 
ponding Group at an examination held after the 

first day of July 1964, under these Regulations. Paper (0 ) Audiling - ( Three Hours - 100 Marks) 
(2) No candidate shall be cligible to appear at a subse Including Audits of Private concerns, Partnership and 
quent examination within the meaning of sub paragraph Joint Stock Companies, Co-operative Societies, Holding 
(1 ) above for the purpose of pussing in the remaining and Subsidiary Companies, Banking Companies and 
Group, unless it is one or more of the six examinations im Insurance Companies Investigation into and criticism of 
mediately following the examination in which he iş declar- Accounts; Audit Reports ; Divisible Profits including Treat 
ed to have passed in one Group . 

ment of Dividend and Reserves; Rights, Duties and 

Liabilities of Auditors; Verification and Valuation of 
( 3 ) The ininimum number of marks required for pass Assets , Detection and Prevention of Frauds and Errors: 
ng in a Group shall be at one sitting 40 per cent of marks Organisation of Accounts Department; the Chartered AC 
in each paper of the Group and 50 per cent of the total countants Act, 1949 including the Schedule , the Ethics of 
marks of all the papers of that Group . 

the profession and the History of Accountancy . 


340 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


PART III - SEO. 4 


GROUP II — MERCANTILE LAW , COMPANY LAW including Forcign Branches; Government System of Ac 
AND ECONOMICS 

counting 
Paper (1) - -Mercantile Law — ( Three Hours--- 100 Marks) — Paper ( ii ) Advanced Accounting and Management 
Including the Law relating to Negotiable Instruments; 

Accounting — ( Three Hours — 100 Marks ) 
Arbitration and Awards; Insolvency ; Rights and Duties of Holding and Subsidiary Companies; Preparation of AC 
Liquidators, Trustees and Receivers; Insurance Law ; counts from Incomplete Records, Preparation of Financial 
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 and Socieliey Regulation Act. Statements ; Their use and interpretation ; Uses of Ac 
Paper (11)- Company Law — ( Three Hours - 100 Marks) counting Ratios ; Elements of Machine Accounting ; 
Company Law including winding up of Companies; 

Management Accounting ; Definition , Objectives, methods, 
Banking and Insurance Companies Act; and the Co- opera 

technique and scope. 
tive Societies Act ( Central and State ). 

Paper ( iii) Costing - (Three hours - 100 Marks) 
Paper ( 11)-- Economics (Three Hours — 100 Marks) . Recording and accounting of direct materials ; stores and 
(i) Nature and Significance of Economics Science; 

finished stock ; Treatment of losses on account of deprecia 
Meaning of Economic Terms; Nature of Wealth and 

tion , obsolescence , natural waste , various methods of re 
Capital Allocation of Factors of Production to alternative 

munerating labour ; Recording and Accounting labour ; 
lises; Crisis, Competition and Monopoly ; Population and 

Incentive Systems; Factory overheads; Selling , Distribution 
Productivity Effects of Inventions and Scientific Develop 

and Administrative overheads ; Reconciliation of Cost and 
ments ; Production and Distribution in an Exchange Eco 

Financial Accounts; Control Accounts, Collection and 
nomy; Theories of Value; the Marginal Principle and the 

arrangement of data and presentation of results ; Cost audit ; 
Law of Substitution ; Theories of Wages, Rent, Profits and 

Elements of Factory Organisation , Budgetary Control, 
Interest ; Money and Banking ; Nature and Functions of 

Marginal Costing and Standard Costing . 
Moncy; the value of Monetary Units ; Currency and Credit Paper (17 ) Auditing - -( Three Hours — 100 Marks) 
System ; the Banking System and Money Markets ; Central 

Including Audits of Private Concerns, Partnership and 
Banks, Effects of Rising and Falling Prices ; Theory of Joint Stock Companies , Co -operative Societies , Holding 
International Trade; Tariffs ; the Effects of different and Subsidiary Companies. Banking Companies and In 
Currencies and Banking Systems on the Foreign Exchanges; 

surance Companies, Investigation into and criticism of 
Foreign Exchanges and the Balance of payments ; the Eco 

Accounts; Audit Reports ; Divisible Profits including 
nomic functions and activities of States; Public Finance Trcatinent of Dividend and Reserves; Rights, Duties and 
and Principles of direct and indirect Taxation Stock Ex - Liabilities of Auditors; Verification and Valuation of 
change ; Moncy Markets; Investments; Company Finance Assets : Detection and Prevention of Frauds and Errors : 
and Capital Structure, 

Organisation of Accounts Department. The Chartered AC 
(ii) Indian Economics, i.c ., Modern Economic Develop countants Act, 1949 , including the Schedules ; The Ethics 
ment of India in Agriculture; in Industry, including of the profession and the History of Accountancy . 
private and State owned and State Managed Industries, in Paper (u ) Taxation ( Three Hours - 100 Marks) 
Trade and Commerce including Forcign and Internal 

Law and practice of Income tax including practica 
Trade; in Currency , Banking and Foreign Exchange and probleins and practical problems on Expenditure Tax 
the Reserve Bank of India ; Public Finance , including the Wealth Tax , Gift Tax and Estate Duty . 
Central Government and the State Governinents. 

The above particulars are intended as a general guide 
to questions which may be asked in each paper . 

GROUP II — COMMERCIAL LAWS AND OTHER 
10 . Final Examination to be held after 1st day of July 

DIRECT TAXES ACTS , COMPANY LAW AND 
1964 - ( 1) A candidate for the Final Examination , to be 

ECONOMICS : 
held after the first day of July 1964 , shall be examined in Paper (1) Commercial Laws and other Direct Taxes Acts 
the subjects comprised in the following two Groups and 

(Three Hours — 100 Marks) 
shall be considered to have passed the Examination , if he 

Section A : Arbitration Act; Insolvency Acts; Rights 
is declared to have passed in both the Groups simultane 

and Dudies of Receivers ; Trusts Act; 
ously or in one Group at onc examination and in the re 

Societies Registration Act , Co -operative 
maining Group at a subsequent cxamination . 

Societies Act (Central and States) ; 
(2 ) No candidate shall be eligible to appear at a subse 

Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 . 
quent examination within the ncaning of sub - paragraph Section B : Expenditure Tax ; Wealth Tax ; Gift 
( 1 ) above for the purposc of passing in the remaining Group 

Tax ; Estate Duty ; Central Sales Tax Act, 
unless it is one or more of the six examinations immediate 

1956 . 
ly following the examination in which he is declared to 
have passed in one Group. 

Paper (ii) Company Law (Three Hours -- 100 Marks) 
(3) The minimum number of marks required for pass Section A : (70 Marks): The Companies Act, 1956 . 
ing in a Group shall be at one sitting 40 per cent. of marks 

Section B : (30 Marks): Banking Companies Act, 
in each paper of the Groups and 50 per cent of the total 

and Insurance Act. (Two questions only 
marks of all the papers of that Group 

will be set). 
(4 ) This paragraph shall also apply to the candidates 
appearing for the Final Examination to be held after the Paper ( iii ) Economics — ( Three Hours- - 100 Marks) 
first day of July 1963, who were dcclared to have passed 

(i) Nature and significance of Economics Science; 
the Intermediatc Examination held in November 1962 or 

Meaning of Economic Terms; Nature of Wealth and 
May 1963. 

Capital; Allocation of Factors of Production to alternative 
uses ; Crisis ; Competition and Monopoly ; Population and 

Productivity Effects of Inventions and Scientific Develop 
GROUP L- ADVANCED ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT 

ments ; Production and distribution in an exchange 
ING 

economy; Theories of Value ; the Marginal Principle and 
Paper (1) Advanced Accounting - ( Three Hours — 100 the Law of Substitution ; Theories of Wages, Rent Profits 
Marks) - - 

and Interest; Money and Banking; Nature and Functions 

of Money ; the value of Monetary Units ; Currency and 
Including knowledge of systems of accounting of Credit System ; the Banking System and Money Markets. 
commercial enterprises ; Double Account System with refer - Central Banks ; Effects of Rising and Falling Prices; Theory 
ence to Electric Companies only ; Partnership Accounts of International Trade; Tariffs ; the Effects of different 
including insolvency Accounts of Limited Companies , in - currencies and Banking systems on the Foreign Exchanges ; 
cluding formation , Re-organisation , Re-construction , Amal. Foreign Exchanges and the Balance of payınents ; the 
gamation and Liquidation of Companies ; Accounts of Economic functions and activities of States ; Public Finance 
Banking Companies; Insurance Companies, Mining Com - and Principles of direct and indirect Taxation ; Stock Ex 
panies, Collieries , Accounts of Doctors, Lawyers, Solicitors change; Money Markets; Investments ; Company Finance 
and Accountants , Departmental and Branch Accounts and Capital structure . 


these days for the impah shall 


PART 111 - SEO.41 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


341 


ex: 


( ii) Indian Economics, i.e. Modern Economic Develop shall , unless his service is continuous, be governed by para 
ment of India in Agriculture ; in Indusrty ; including graph 12 . 
private and Statę owned and State managed Industries; in 

Explanation - Any break in the service of a person refer 
Trade and Commerce including Foreign and Internal 

red to above prior to 1st July 1956 , shall not be considered 
Tradc; in Curiency , Banking and Foreign Exchange and 

as break in service for the purposes of this proviso , if hc 
the Reserve Bank of India ; Public Finance , including the 
Central Government and the State Governments. 

(a ) has completed the period of practical training 

prescribed under this paragraph prior to the 1st of July 
The above particulars are intended as a general guide 
to questions which may be asked in each paper . 

(b ) being in such service on thc Ist day of July 1956 , has 
11 . Period of training for a person engaged before the complcted the period of practical training prescribed under 

A person who has entered into this paragraph without any break in service after the 1st 
articles or audit service prior to the 1st day of July 1956 day of July 1956 : 
and who has passed the cxaminations prescribed in this 
Schedule shall not be eligible for membership of the Insti. Provided , however , that the Examination Commillee may, 
tute unless hc produces a certificate in the appropriate at its discretion , condone any brcak in such service . 
Form from an appropriate person to the effect that he - 12 . Period of Training for a person after the 1st day of 

(a ) has served as an articled clerk for the total period July 1956 — ( 1) A person who has entered into articles or 
specified below : 

audit service on or after the Ist day of July 1956 and has 

passed the examinations prescribed in this Schedule or 
(i) in the case of a person who has passed the degree 

recognised as equivalent thereto shall not be eligible for 
of onverstly constituted by law in India or membership of the Institute unless he produces a certi 
any other University recognised by the Central Govern - ficate in the appropriate Form from an appropriate person 
ment and has either taken accountancy , auditing and to the eflect that he 
mercantile law or commercial law along with other sub 
jects for the degree examination or has secured a minimum (a ) has served as an articled clerk for a total period of 
of 60 per cent of the total marks of all the papers at onę 4 years; or 
sitting in the degree examination or who has been awarded (b ) has served as an audit clerk for a total period of 8 
the All India or National Diploma in Commerce by the 
All India Board of Technical Studies in Commerce and 
Business Administration and / or the All India Council for 

(c) has served partly as an articled clerk and partly as an 
Technical Education with auditing as special subject, prior audit clerk for the total period as specified in clause (b ); or 
to entering into articles or audit service , and has under (d ) has served as an articled clerk for a total period of 
gone practical training prescribed for the award of the said 3 years or as an audit clerk for a total period of 6 years or 
Diploina for a period of one year under a Chartered Ac- partly as an articled clerk and partly as an audit clerk for 
countant entitled to train articled clerks - 3 years. 

a total period as specified in this paragraph , if he has pass 
( ii ) in the case of any other graduate - 4 years. 

ed the examination prescribed for the Government Diploma 

in Accountancy or an examination recognised as equiva 
(iii) in the case of a person who has passed the All India lent thereto by the rules for the award of the Government 
Diploma or National Diploma in Commerce Examination Diploma in Accountancy : 
held by the All India Board of Technical studies in Com 
merce and Business Adininistration and / or the All India 

Provided that for the purposes of coinputing the total 
Council for Technical Education with auditing as special period specified in clauses ( C ) or (a ) , complete six months 
subject — 4 years. 

servicc as an articled clerk shall be reckoned as one year s 

service as an audit clerk and vice versa and fractions of a 
(iv) in any other case - -5 years . 

period less than six months in the case of articled servicc 
(h )(i) An articled clerk may, with the permission of his and one year in the case of audit service, shall be ignored . 
cinployer , serve during the latter half of his service under (2)(i) An articled clerk may, with the permission of his 
articles, for a period not exceeding 12 months in all , in a employer, serve during the latter half of his service under 
financial, commercial or industrial undertaking whose total articles, for a period not exceeding 12 months in all, in a 
assets are not less than fifty lakhs of rupees or such other financial, commercial or industrial undertaking whosc total 
institution or organisation as may be approved by the assets are not less than fifty lakhs oſ rupees or such other 
Council. 

institution or organisation as may be approved by the 
(ii) An articled clerk who has served in the manner 

Council. 
specified in sub paragraph (i) shall obtain a certificate in 

(ii) An articled clerk who has served in the manner speci. 
the appropriate Form from a member or from a member 
of the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India , 

fied in clause (i) shall obtain a certificate in the appro 
under whom he has served . 

priate Form from a meinber or from a member of the 

Institutc of Cost and Works Accountants of India , under 
(iii ) The period of service by an articled clerk , as speci- whom he has served . 
ſied in sub paragraph (i) , shall be treated as service under 
articles for all the purposes of these Regulations, provided 

( iii) The period of service by an articled clerk , as speci 
the certificatc reſerred to above is produced . 

fied in clause (i) shall be trcated as service under articles 

for all the purposes of these Regulations, provided the 
(2 ) has served as an audit clerk for the period prescribed certificate referred to above is produced . 
below : 

13. Proof of training in the absence of a certificate - In 
(i) in the case of a person referred to in sub -clause (i) of the case of a person who is unable to produce , for a va 
(1)(a ) above - 6 years; 

reason , a certificate in an appropriate Form froin an appro 
( ii ) in the case of a person referred to in sub-clauses (ii) priate person , the Council may require such proof as it may 
and (iii) of (1) (a ) above - 8 years; and 

determine that the former person has served either as an 
( iii) in any other case - 9 years. 

articled clerk or as an audit clerk , for the period required 

by paragraph 11 or 12 , as the case may be . 
( 3 ) has served partly as an articled clerk and partly as 
an audit clerk for a total period as specified in sub - para 

SCHEDULE C 
graph (2 ) : 

Post GRADUATE TRAINING 
Provided that for the purposes of computing the total 
period specified in sub -paragraph ( 3 ), complete six months 1 . Management Accountancy Coursc - ( 1 ) The Manage 
service as an articled clerk shall be reckoned as one vear s ment Accountancy Course shall include a course of the cre: 
service as in audit clerk and vice versa and fractions of a tical training ( Part 1) and practical training a nd an 
period less than six months in the case of articled service separatc certificates in the appropriate form 10 cm 
and one year in the case of audit service, shall be ignored : parts shall be granted to those who qualify for the same, 
Provided further that a person referred to in sub -clause 

as hereinafter provided . 

da 
( 1) ot cause ( Ya ) above, who has entered into articles or ( 2 ) A candidate who has qualilied in Parts 1 and 11 , shall 
audit service , as the case may be, prior to 1st July 1956 , be awarded a certificate in the appropria 


m 


. 


342 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 

PART III - SEO . 4 
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 

2 . xidministration - Notwithstanding anything contained (iv ) Financial planning for new projects 
in regulation 150 , thc Management Accountancy Course (v ) Problems of financial policy. 
shall be in charge of a Coininittcc appointed by the 
Council for the purpose , whose functions shall include 

Paper 2 covers the study of cost data in relation to the 
holding of the examination , admissions thereto , appoint. 

needs of Management. Beside the costing system for 
ment and selection of examiners, prescription of books for 

determination of Cost , it utilises the cost data for the 
the guidance of candidates, declaration of results and other 

purpose of control & planning . The syllabus for this paper , 
allied matters. 

therefore , embraces the basic concepts of cost accounting , 

the selection of the most appropriate system of costing and 
3 . Admission to the examination (Management AC- the diffcrcnt approaches to cost. It also covers Budgetary 
countancy Course ) (Part 1) - (1 ) No candidate shall be ad - Control which is the universally recognized tool of cost 
mitted to the Management Accountancy Examination Control, cost problems related to now projects and the cost 
( Part I) unless he is a member at the tiinc of appearing at aspects of pricing . 
the examination and has been a member for a continuous 
period of not less than one year prior to the date of the The paper does not attempt to examine the candidates 
examination . 

in procedures of the different costing systems. The candi 

dates should , however , note that unless they acquire a good 
(2 ) Every candidate for admission to the examinition 

understanding of the methods and procedures of Cost 
shall pay a fee of one hundred rupces. 

Accounting they may not be able to effectively deal with 
4 . Papers and syllabus— (1 ) A candidate for the Manage- this paper. 
ment Accountancy Examination shall be examined in the 

Management Accounting - Paper 1 
subjects comprised in the following two Groups and shall 
be considered to have passed the examination if he is (1) Concept of Capital with reference to 
declared to have passed in both the Groups simultaneously (a ) Sources (Equity Vs. borrowed capital) 
or in one Group at one time and in the remaining Group 
at a subscquent cxamination . 

(b ) Period [working (short -term ) capital Vs. long 

term capital] 
(2 ) No candidate shall be eligible to appear at a subse 
quent examination within the mucaning of sub - paragraph 

(1) Application (capital employed ). 
(1 ) for the purpose of passing in the remaining Group , un - Working capital — Nature of working capital — Analysis 
Icsy it is one or more of the six examinations immediately of working capital — Estimating the requirements of work 
following the examination in which he is declared to have ing capital - Ratios and proforma statements Fund -flow 
passed in one Group . 

analysis - Cash flow analysis Finance planning - Budget 
(8 ) The minimum number of marks required for passing ing - Ellect of changes in credit policy , pricing policy , pur 
in a Group shall be 10 per cent of marks in each paper of chasing policy and production planning on working capi 
the Group and 50 per cent of the total marks for all the tal — Methods of financing working capital requirements 
papers of that Group . 

(sources of Short -terin financing ). 
Provided that the Committee concerned may at its discre . Long-lerm Capital — (Equity and borrowed ) Determina 
tion , reduce the minimum pass mark upto three marks in 

tion of the capital structure in relation to varying circum 
one or inore papers and upto five marks in aggregate : stances of ownership , control and risk - Dcht Vs. Stock 

Trading on equity -- Pricing and placing of securities 
Group I. 

Dilution — Probleins of refunding , Recapitalisation and re 
Paper 1 - Management Accounting . 

organisation _ Valuation of securities - -Regulation of 
Paper 2 - Management Accounting. 

capital issue in India — Capital expenditure- - Determining 

the cost of capital. 
Group II 

(2 ) Probability of operations and return on capital 
Paper 1 - Management and Organisation Struc Technique of analysing the financial statements using 
ture, 

different kinds of ralios - Cost of sales, Manufacturing 
Paper 2 -- Economic and Management Policies. 

overhead , administrative overhead and sales overhead . 

allocated cost - cash vs. book profits. 
GROUP I 

Concept of carning power : calclulating the earning 
Management Accounting - Papers 1 and 2 

power of an enterprise in terms of sales turnover , margin 
Objectives and Scope 

of profit , total assets and operating assets. 
" Management Accounting " is a new approach to the Concept of return on capital: Various variables affecting 
function and usefulness of " Accounting " . It represents the the return on capital - Impact of inflation on return on 
use of Accounting as an aid to Management in their twin capital — return after tax , 
functions of (a ) laying down policics of the business (b ) 

(8 ) Measurement of profits and presentation to Manage 
Controlling the operationis of the business with a view to 

ment: 
maximising Profits. 

(a ) Measurement of profits by — Period (monthly , 
Management Accounting , therefore, docs not imply a 

quarterly , etc .) Function , department , division or 
tudy of any new principles of Accounting . It is practical in 

section , etc . Product group. 
its approach and it aims at associating the accountant with 
the Management in the making of business decisions and 

(b ) For a uniform basis of comparing the profitability 
in constantly reviewing the implementation of such deci 

of operations, criteria to be used in treating the 
sions, the fundamental objective being the attainment of 

overheads - Preparation of proſit statements for 
highest possible business efficiency . The Examinees should , 

control and managerial decisions. 
therefore , note that mere theoretical knowledge will not 

(c) Designing reports on profitability of operations 
be adequate. They should display ability to apply the 

for the use of top management. 
knowledge to a given situation and to analyse and inter 
pret accounting figures in such a manner as to aid (4 ) New Projects — Development and expansion - Pro 
Management. 

ject planning — Deterinining working capital and long 
Paper 1 covers the analysis and interpretation of con . term capital requirements and estiinating the profitability 
cepts in the financial accounting area . In particular, the 

of operations and returns on capital - approach based on 
syſlabus prescribed for the Paper is intended to cover the 

discounted cash flows and pay back method - Determining 
following : 

the capital structure in terms of availability of sources of 

finance and maximisation of return on capital - Prepara 
f ) Analysis of the capital necds and the problems of tion of cash budgets so as to facilitate timing of financial 
capital structure ; 

commitments - capital expenditure control Programme. 
(ii) Judging the efficiency of capital employed 

(5 ) Higher Management financial policy - Plough back , 
through an analysis of profitability of operations. Tax and depreciation considerations Dividend policy 
(iii ) Preparation and presentation of profit reports to Bonus shares - - Right issuesUnder and over -capitalisa 
management: 

ţion - Market value of shares . 


Part III - SEC. 41 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA , JUNE 22, 1968 


343 


S 


. 


(6 ) Tools for Management Accounting – Comparative the paper is essentially descriptive in nature and the 
statements - statement of source ud application of funds examinees are expected to be familiar with the functional 
- Graphs - Charts Trend Analysis 

activities of industrial cuterprises , 
(7 ) Reports : 

Section B provides for an analytical study of the organi 

sation structure and it is technique -oriented in that the 
( 1) Presentation of accounting and financial data to 

examinees should be familiar with the methods and pro 
the Board . 

cedures of buliding an organisation structure. Though 
Presentation of data to Management: Furnishing management accountants are not called upon to handle 
relevant Guancial data to various levels of probleins of organisational change, they should however 
management. 

be familiar with the techniques of organisation , so that 
Presentation of annual accounts : Company Law 

they would be in a position to participate effectively in 
requirements - Meaningful display of financial 

discussions on organisational problems affecting their 
function . 


(b ) 


data . 


ETODICIIS OL : 


Management Accounting - Paper 2 

MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION STRUC 

TURE 
SECTION A 

Section A 
( 1) Cost Accounting — Classification of cost : Material, 

The concept of management — The process of manage 
Labour, Overhead , Fixed , Variable and Semi- fixed costs — 

ment: Planning, Organising, Motivating and Controlling 
Methods of distribution of overheads — methods of cost 

The functional areas of management : Finance , Produc 
finding : Job costs , process costs, standard costs . Direct 

tion , Personnel , Marketing, Purchasing and other staff 

functions— A detailed study of the functional areas in a 
costs . 

typical industrial enterprise. 
Standard costs -- Setting up standards — Getting accept 
ance of standads - Attainable Standards Frequency of 

(a ) Finance : Nature of company finance as a functional 
changes of standards — Analysis of variances. 

area of management- Organisation of finance depart 

ment-- Functions of the department : Accounting , Audit 
(2 ) Setting up a cost system - Selection of a cost system - - 

and Cost Control gystems— Administration of the depart 
Making the cost system understood by the Management 

ment. 
Organisation and installation of the selected cost system , 
Minimising the cost of cost accounting - - Application of 

(b ) Production : 
cost systems only to certain functional areas of the business (i) Plant location - Factors determining location -- 
unit . 

Layout 

( ii) Typical manufacturing processes and machine 
SECTION B 

operations 
(1) Budgetary Control : 

( iii) Working of the production unit- Production 
Budgeting : Types of budgets Budget procedures 

planning and scheduling - Production control and 
Flexible budgeting - Preparation , Operation , Control and 

quality control — work simplification and produc 
Problems of : 

tivity — Time and motion studies , Inventory 

control - Purchasing , storing and despatching 
(a ) Operating budgets ; 

Production Engineering — Materials handling and 
(b ) Capital Budgets ; 

plant maintenance 
(c) Financial budgets ; 

( iv ) Organisation structure of a typical manufacturnig 
(d ) Long -term and perspective budgets. 

unit . 
Functions and responsibilities of the budget depart (c) Personnel: 
ment- - Responsibility centresControl through budgets : 
Analysis of variancos, causes of variances , corrective actions 

(i) Functions of personnel department -- Personnel 
proposed , effect of corrective actions, 

selection , induction and training — Placement 

Transfer , proinotions and retirement- Salary and 
(2) Interpretation of costs in Decision Making : 

wage administration Employee welfare and re 
(a ) Kinds of Costs: 

creation - medical assistance - Safety - - Place of 
Historical costs 

personnel departinent in the organisation struc 
Controllable and uncontrollable costs 

ture of a typical industrial enterprise 
Out of pocket costs 

(ii) Labour-management problems. Trade Unions. 
Marginal Costs 

(d ) Marketing : Functions of marketing department 
Replacement Costs, 

Sales , Advertising , Marketing research , Publicity, Sales 

force , Statistics, Distribution , Transportation , Price policy, 
( b ) Cosling of Projects : 

Forecasting and Market analysis. 
Analysis of costs for alternative choices - Weigh 
ing and measuring quantitative factors - Future 

(e ) Other Functions: Buying, legal, trade marks 
costs Differential costs Estimating the return 

Secretarial, economic, operational statistics , organisation 
on capital - Unadjusted return on investment 

and methods ( O & M ). 
method and the financial method . 

Section B 
(c) Make or buy decisionsConsideration of relevant Nature of internal organisation of a business enterprise 
costs — profit maximisation , 

Principles of organisation : Typical patterns of grouping 
(d ) Product pricing : Breakeven cost analysis - - Con 

activities - - Line, Staff and lateral relationships — Concepts 
sideration of volume and margin in terms of 

of authority and span of supervision - - Delegation of autho 
demand and supply . 

rity and managerial control. 
GROUP II 

Studying the efficiency of the organisation structure as a 

whole in terms of levels of authority and span of control 
MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION STRUC 

ISATION STRUC - Problems of re-organisation and decentralisation . 
TURE - Paper 1 

Organisation Charts — Work flow charts — Organisation 
Objectives and Scope : 

manuals. 
The object of the Paper is to test the knowledge of ECONOMIC AND MANAGEMENT POLICIES-- - 
the examinees regarding the managerial functions of the 
executives in different functional areas and at different 

Paper 2 
levels and also of the organisational framework within Objectives and scope : 
which they operate. The subject covers broadly the con - The obiective of this paper is to test the candidates 
cept and nature of managerial functions in terms of plan - awareness of thc framework of industrial and economic 
ning, organising, motivating and controlling . Soçtion A of policies of the Government within which individual hrms 


344 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


[ PART III - SEO . 4 


operate and also of the various techniques of management. (e ) Methods of financing (plough -back ); 
Candidates should therefore study the trends in the field 

(f) Earnings per sharc Vs. market value . 
of Government economic policies and their implications on 

Inter-firm and intra -firm comparisons, 
management policies and practices. 

Inflation and depreciation Accounting practices, 
Section A of the paper covers broadly a study of the 
industrial development in India in the context of the Five 

Application of the concept of contiol to distribution 
Year Economic Plans with particular reference to Govern 

costs, 
ment regulation of industry. Economic development should Concept of Accountability in public enterprises and 
be studied froin the point of view of businessinan rather than 

current practices of reporting control information , 
that of a historian . The emphasis should therefore be on Data processing by machines. 
the trends of industrial development and their meaning 

5 . Conduct of examinations (1 ) The examination inay 
ful interpretation from the management s point of view . 

be conducted at such intervals, in such manner and at such 
Section B provides for an examination of some current 

time and places, as the Council may direct. 
issues with which the management accountant is expected 
to be familiar. The areas of study indicated in the syllabus 

(2 ) The dates and places of the examination and other 
under this Section may include contemporary practices in particulars shall be notificd in the Gazette of India . 
other countries. The cxaminees should therefore be up 6 . Application for admission 10 examination . An appli 
to -date on the current thinking on the topics and be pre - cation for admission to thc cxamination shall be made in 
parcd to examine the application of the theoretical con the approved form , a copy of which m . iy be obtained from 
cepts to Indian conditions as studied under Section A , 

the Secretary , and together with the prescribed fee , shall 
ECONOMIC AND MANAGEMENT POLICIES 

be sent so as to reach the Council in accordance with the 
Section A 

directions given by it. 
Economic Policy : 

7 . Refund of fee — ( 1) The fee paid by a candidate who 
Five - Year Plans and industrial development A study of has been admitted to an cxamination shall not , cxccpt as 
the Planning Coininission s programme of industrial deve- otherwise provided in sub - paragraph ( 2 ), be refunded . 
lopment with a view to obtaining an idea of the develop - ( 2 ) Wherc a candidate applies to the Council for the 
ment of specific industries during a given period - - Govern - transfer of fce to the next examination on the ground that 
ment regulation of industry with particular reſcrence to : he was prevented from attending the examination on ac 
(i) Location of industries 

count of circumstances beyond his control, the Council 
( ii ) Industrial development and Regulation Act 

may permit the fee paid by such candidate to be appro 

priated towards the fee payable only for the next follow 
( iii) Industrial Relations (wage boards, labour dis 

ing examination ; 
putes, joint councils , etc.) 
(iv) Tariff protection ( Tariff Commission enquiries) 

Provided that no such application received after the ex . 
(v) Foreign exchange control 

piry of fifteen days of the last date of the examination shall 

be considered . 
(vi) Export Promotion - Government incentives 

8 . Declaration of result — ( 1 ) A list of successful candi 
(vii) Export- Import policy – Trade agreements 

dates shall be published in the Gazette of India . 
coinmon markets . 
(viii ) Company Legislation 

(2 ) A candidate passing the examination ( Part I) shall be 
(ix ) Control of capital issues 

granted a certificate in the appropriate Form . 
(x ) Business taxation policy . 

( 3) All the candidates shall be informed of the marks 

obtained in each paper . 
Section B 
Management Policies and Practices 

9 . Action against candidates resorting to unfair means 

If it is reported to the Committee that a candidate has re 
1. Financial: 

sorted to or has attempted to resort to unfair means for the 
Central Government budgeting 

purpose of passing the examination the Committee shall 
Capital market conditions 

hold an enquiry and submit a report to the Council which 

may, after any further investigacion as it may consider 
Placing of securities on the market current practices 

necessary , také such disciplinary action against the candi 
Sources of finance in India - A study of the different date as it thinks fit : 

kinds of financial institutions in India such as 
commercial banks, quasi- government financial 

Provided that an opportunity shall be given to the candi 
institutions, international financial agencies , stock 

date of being heard before an order adverse to himn is pass 
market and of the terms on which funds are ed . 
available to business enterprises . 

10 . Examiners , The Committee may make such arrange 
Company Law Administration - its observations on ments and may appoint such examiners to set question 

matters relating to financial aspects of company papers and value answer books as it may deem hit . 
management 

11. Amendment of result - In any case where it is found 
Trends in the flow of foreign capital.- - Nature of that the result of an examination has been affected by error , 

foreign collaboration agreements Government malpractice , fraud , improper conduct or other matter, of 
regulations 

whatever nature, the Committee herein before mentioned 
Floatation of new companiesTrend with particular 

shall have the power to amend such result in such manner 
reference to capital structure (working and long 

as shall be in accord with the true position and to make 

such declaration as the Committee shall consider neces 
terin and classes of securities). 

sary in that behalf . 
II. Managerial : Current managerial techniques and 
practices : 

12 . Practical training (Management Accountancy 

Course — Part 11)- - (1 ) A member, who has had practical 
A study of the latest techniques and practices in training for a period of two years in the organisations that 
the areas of finance and cost administration with a view may be recommended by the Committee in this behalf and 
to emphasising their managerial significance. 

who satisfies the conditions hercinafter mentioned , shall be 
Analysis of operating statements and annual reports of granted a certificate in the appropriate Form . 
the leading companies of a selected few major industries 

(2 ) The Committee may prepare a list of organisations, 
(both consumer and industrial goods) with particular service in which may be recognised towards practical train 
reference to the following factors; 

ing referred to hereinbeforc . 
(a ) Capital structure ; 
(b ) Rate of return ; 

(3) A candidate desiring to qualify himself for the grant 

of a certificate referred to * in sub - paragraph ( 1) shall make. 
(c) Dividend policy; 

an application , at least two years in advance giving notice 
(d ) Earning power ; 

of his intention to qualify for the same. 


345 


PART III So, 4 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 

- - - - - - - - - - 
(4 ) The application shall he accompanied by a registra - Agricultural Credit Department, Reserve Bank of India , 
ion fee of one hundred rupces which shall not be refunded Bombay , to be the Managing Director of the Agricultural 
xcept wliere the application is not accepied for my Refinance Coropration with effect from the 1st July 1963. 
eason . 
13. Thesis - - (1) A candidate, after undergoing the practi 

P . C . BHATTACHARYA 
al training for a period of 2 years as may be directed by 

Governor 
he Committee, shall submit a thesis on it subject to be ap 
proved by the Committee , within a period of three months . 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
(2 ) The thesis shall be submitteal with a fee of one 

OF INDIA 
hundred and fifty rupees which shall not be refundable. 

NOTIFICATION 
(3 ) The candidate shall submit in English three type 
written or printed copies of the thesis einbodying the rc 

New Delhi, the 7th June 1963 
sults of his training and research and slating whether the 
work is based on the discovery of new facts by the candi 

No. 5 -CA (1 ) / 5 / 63-64 — With reference to this Institu 
date or of new relations of facts observed by others and 

te s Notification No 4 -CA ( 1) / 12 /62 -63 dated the 21st 
how the work tends to the gercial advancement of know 

December 1962 , it is hereby notified in pursuance of Re 
ledge . 

gulation 14 of the Chartered Accountants Regulations , 

1949, that in exercise of the powers conferred by Regula 
(4 ) The candidatc shall further submit a statement indi 

tion 13, of the said Regulations, the Council of the Insti 
cating the sources froin which his information h :1s been 

Lute of Chartered Accountants of India has restored to 
derived and the extent to which he has balsecl his work 911 the Register of Members , with effect from the 18th day 
the work of others and shall indicate which portion or of May 1963, the name of Shri Kundey Ram Chaturvedi, 
portions of his work he claims as original. 

F . C . A ., Accounts Officer ( Prodn . ), Hindustan Steel Ltd ., 

Qr. No. B -60 , Sector - 17, Rourkela - 3 , (Membership No. 
(5 ) The Committee shall forward the thesis to the 2 + 39 ). 
referees appointed by it for their advice whether the thesis 
is of a sufficiently high degree or merit as to deserve appro 

B . R . MALHOTRA 
ival or whether it may be modificd and if so , in what manner, 
or whether it may be rejected . 

Secretary 
14 . Intervicu — The candidate shall be required to appear 
before an inte view board that may be appointed by the 

STATE BANK OF INDIA 
Committee in this behall . 

NOTICES 
15 . Grant of certifrute - A candidate who has completed 
the practical training, whose thesis has been accepted and 

Calcutta , the 5th June 1963 
who has been successful at the interview , shall be eligible 

In pursuance of Regulation 40 ( 1) of the State Bank of 
for a certificate in the appropriato Form . 

India General Regulation , 1955 , it is hereby notified that 

Shri Vinod Vrajlal Parekh of 52 / 4 , Ballygunge Circular 
16 . Record of training - - A complete record showing the Road , Calcutta 19 , being the only person validly nominat 
details of training undergone by the candidate shall he ed for election shall be deemed to be elected as a Mem 
inaintained by him and a copy thereof shall be subinitted ber of the Calcutta Local Board of the State Bank of 
10 the Committee from time to time. 

India on the 19th June 1963, with effect on and from the 

1st July , 1963 and that the Local Meeting of shareholders 
17 . 1dvisory board - ( 1 ) Thc Coinnuittec may appoint au which was to be held on Wednesday, the 19th June 1963 
advisory board consisting of not more than 5 persons 10 in terms of the Bank s Notice of the 10th April 1963, 
advise the Committee on the syllabus, examinations, prac- solely for the purpose of the aforesaid election , stands 
tical training, research and any other inatter relating to cancelled 
Management Accountancy, as might be reſerred to it. 

B . K . KACKER 
(2 ) The niembers of the advisory board shall be cligible 

Secretary 
for travelling allowance and daily allowance according to 

Calcutta Local Board 
- the rates that may be approved by the Council, 
B . R . MALHOTRA 

Madras, the 5th June 1963 
Secretary 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to Regulation 40 ( 1 ) of 
the State Bank of India General Regulations 1955 , that 

only one valid nomination for the election of member of 
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

the Madras Local Board of the Bank has been received 

viz ., that of Shri Trichur Sundaram Krishna of " T . V . S . 
Central Office 

Building" , West Veli Street, Madurai and as such he is 

declarded elected as a member of the Madras Local 
NOTIFICATIONS 

Board with effect from the 1st July 1963. A Local Meet 

ing of the Shareholders on the Madras Register was con 
Bombay , the 13th June 1963 

vened to be held on the 19th June 1963 , solely for the pur 

pose of electing a member of the Madras Local Board and 
No , ARC . 40 / PR ,323-62 /63 — In pursuance of clause ( a ) as only one valid nomination has been received , the 
of section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation meeting shall stand cancelled in terms of the abovemen 
Act, 1963 ( 10 of 1963) , the Reserve Bank of India , hereby tioned Regulation , 
nominates Prof, D . G . Karve, a Deputy Governor of the 
Reserve Bank of India , to be the Chairman of the Board 
of Directors of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation 

R . K . TALWAR 
with effect from the 1st July 1963. 

Dy. Secretary and Treasurer 
No. ARC , 41 / PR , 323-62 / 63 – in pursuance of clause ( b ) 
of section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Act, 1963 ( 10 of 1963) , the Reserve Bank of India , hereby 
nominates Shri P . D . Kasbekar, Chief Officer , Agricultu 
ral Credit Department, Reserve Bank of India , Bombay , 

Employees State Insurance Corporation 
to be a Director of the Board of the Agricultural Refl 
nance Corporation with effect from 

NOTIFICATIONS 
the 1st July 1963. 
No. ARC . 42 / PR .323 -62 / 63 — In pursuance of clause (g ) 

New Delhi, the 12th June 1963 
of section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation No. INS. 1 -22 ( 1 ) - 1 /63 ( A ) - In pursuance of the powers 
Act, 1963 ( 10 of 1963) , the Reserve Bank of India , hereby conferred by section 46 ( 2 ) of the Employees State In 
appoints Shri V . Sivaraman , Officer on Special Duty , surance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , read with Regulation 95 - A 


ng shen valia member of the 1963, se 


346 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[ PART III — SFO . 4 


of the Employees State Insurance (General) Regulations, 
1950 , I hereby notify the 30th June, 1963 as the date from 
which the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu 
lation 95 - A and the Madras Employees State Insurance 
(Medical Benefit ) Rules , 1954, shall be extended to the 
families of the insured persons in the areas of Gudiya 
tham and Virudhunagar in the State of Madras , Name 
ly : - - , 


I. The areas within the limits of revenue village of: 


(a ) Cheruvanki; 
(b ) Gudiyatham ; 


(c ) Pichanur ; 
(d ) Kondasamudram ; 


II. MATHURA : -- - 

(1 ) The areas within the Municipal Board , Mathura . 
( ii ) The areas within the Cantonment Board , 

Mathura . 
( iii ) Village Ahilyaganj in Pargana, Tehsil and Dis 

trict Mathura . 
III. HAPUR : 
(i) The areas within the Muncipal Board , Hapur, 

Pargana and Tehsil Hapur, District Meerut. 
( ii) The areas within the Municipal Board , Hapur 

Pargana Sarwa, Tehsil Hapur , District Meerut: 
( iii ) Village Hapur Shivgarhi in Pargana and Tehsil 

Hapur, District Meerut 
IV . HARANGAON : - 
Village Harangaon in Pargana and Tehsil Firozabaw , 

District Agra . 
No. INS 1- 22 ( 1 ) - 1 /63 ( D ) — In pursuance of the power 
conferred by section 46 (2 ) of the Employees State Insu 
rance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , read with Regulation 95 - A of 
the Employees State Insurance (General) Regulations , 
1950 , I hereby notify the 30th June 1963 as the date from 
which the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu 
lation 95 - A and the Bihar Employees State Insurance 
(Medical Benefit ) Rules , 1951 shall be extended to the 
families of insured persons in Gaya, Muzaffarpur and 
Mokameh in the State of Bihar namely : 
I. GAYA : 
The areas within the Municipal limits of Gaya , and 

the following revenue villages: -- 


(e ) Chedukkaral; 


( 1) Nelloripet; 


(g ) Udayendram , 

in Guidyatham taluk , North Arcot District.. 
II. The areas within the limits of the revenue villages 
of: 

( a ) Kottaipatti; 
(b ) Allampatti; and 
(c ) Kooraikundu . 


in Virudhunagar Sub - Taluk , in Ramanathapuram 
District. 
III . The areas comprised within the revenue village of 
Soolaikarai in Aruppukottai taluk , in Ramanathapuram , 
District . 


Naino of revenje 

village . 


No . of revenue 


Thana 


Namo of revenue 

thane . 
Mofugoil Gaya 

do 


(n ) Piheni 
(b ) Abgilla 
10 ) Gore 


251 
314 
282 


do 


No, INS . I-22 ( 1) - 1 /63 ( B ) — In pursuance of the powers 
conferred by section 46 ( 2 ) of the Employees State Inşu 
rance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 , read with Regulation 95 - A of 
the Employees State Insurance (General) Regulation , 
1950, I hereby notify 30th June 1963 as the date from 
which the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu 
lation 95 - A and the Mysore Employees State Insurance 
(Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958 , shall be extended to the 
families of insured persons in the following areas of Bel 
gaum in the State of Mysore, namely : -- 


II. MOKAMEH : 
The areas within the limits of Mokameh Notified area 

Committee and the following revenue villages 
of : - - 


Neing of revenuo 

village . 


Namo of revenue 

thana . 


No. of revenue 

Thana . 


The areas covered by the Municipal limits of Bel 

gaum and inclusive of the following areas in 
in and around the Municipal limits of Belgaum , 
namely : - 


(6 ) Murerpur 
(b ) Dariapur 
(0 ) Dherampur 
( d ) Hathidah 


Mokameh 

do 


do 


III, MUZAFFARPUR : 


The areas within the Municipal limits of Muzaffar 

pur , 


V . N . RAJAN 
Director General 


1 City Survey limits. 
2. Mazagaon area , including survey No. 691 / 1 / 2. 
3. Cantonment area . 
4. Khasbag , survey Nos. 80, 76, 46 . 
5 . Angol, Survey , No. 733. 

6 Survey Nos. 899 , 10, 892, 1409, 368 , 897 and 1381. 
No. INS . I-22 ( 1) - 1 / 63 ( C ) — In pursuance of the powers 
conferred by section 46 ( 2 ) of the Employees State Insu 
rance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , read with Regulation 95 - A 
of the Employees State Insurance (General) Regulations, 
1950, I hereby notify 20th June 1963, as the date from 
which the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu 
lation 95 - A and the Uttar Pradesh Employees State In 
surance Medical Benefit ) Rules , 1961, shall be extended 
to the families of insured persons in the following areas 
of Dehradun , Mathura, Hapur and Harangaon in the 
State of Uttar Pradesh , namely : 
I. DEHRADUN : 

(i) The areas within the Municipal Board , Dehradun . 
( ii ) The areas within the Cantonment Board , Dehra 

dun . 
(ilt ) Villages Udaiwala Karanpur, Chukhuwala , 

Mohebiawala Niranjanpur , Dehradun , Ranghal 
wala , Karanpurkhas, Dehrakhas, and Kaulagarh in 
Pargana Tehsil and District Dehradun , 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Communications and Civil Aviation ) 

(Pasts and Telegraphs) 

NOTIFICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 11th June 1963 
No, 25 / 19 /63 - LI -- Postal Life Insurance (Endowment) 
Policy No . 34773C dated 12th July 1949 for Rs. 5 ,000 / - held 
by Shri K , Babu Rao, having been lost from his custody , 
notice is hereby given that the payment thereof has been 
stopped . The Deputy Director , Postal Life Insurance , 
Calcutta has been authorised to issue a duplicate policy 
in favour of the insurant. The public are hereby caution 
ed against dealing with the original policy . 


V , E . ARUNACHALAM 
Director Postal Life Insurance 


PART III – Sto. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


347 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

Central Board of Film Censors 

PART I 
Particulars of Films granted or refused certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 

16th February 1963 
Instructions : - B - Bombay ; C — Calcutta ; M — Madras . U Certified for unrestricted public exhibition . 

A Certified for public exhibition restricted to Adults i. e. 

persons who have completed their 18th year . 


Applica 
tion No. 


Name of the film with 
languago and country of 

origin 


Longth of 
the film in 
metres and 

No. of 
Tools 


Name of the person or 

Co . Applying for the 
certificate with addregs 


Name of the person or 
Co . who has produçod 
the Alm with address 


Nature of 
tho cortificato 
granted und 

No , and 
date of the 
certificato 
issued or 
date on 

which it 
was refusod 


Romarka 


BOMBAY 


B /36880 


Ross Hunter, U . S. A . 


Trailer of " If A Man Answers" 84 ( 1 ) 
( Colour ), (English ), 95 mm . 
- - U . S . A . 


Universal Pictures India 
Private Ltd ., Metro House, 
M . G . Road , Bombay 1 . 


37809 

- With triangle mark , 
11 - 2 -08 


Endorsement 

No. B /96380 . 
Film " Trallor of " If A Man Anbwers " (Colour), 
Length applied — 87 m . 

U - Cert. No. 37689 of 11- 2 -63 . 
Delete 

From the following dialoguo of Chantal, tho underlined words : " In short , the honeymoon is over. 
I think Eugene and I would have been much happler if I d become his mistress instead of his wife" - 2 . 79 m . 
Actual length of the trailer after the aforesaid deletions will be — 84 m . 


48383 


101( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


" AŞtar Grows Up " ( Fashion 

Trailer of " If A Man Ana 
wers" (English ), ( Colour) 38 
mm . - - U . S . A . 


97870 

w 
11 - 2 - 08 


With triangle mark 


ndorsement 

No. B /86383 
Filmu - " A Ster Grow Up ( Fashion Trailor of " If A Man Answers " )( Colour). 
Length applied — 194 m . 

U - Cert. No. 87670 of 11 -2 -63. 
Reduce 

To a mere flash pasionato lovo-making between a man and Sandra Deo - 2 . 82 m . 
Adual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 191 m . 


/96608 


180 ( 1) 


37571 


" Conservatole of Prague" 
(Engliab ), 16 mm . - 
Czechoslovakia , 


Consulate General of the 

Czechoslovak Socialist Re- 
publio , - Poddor Road , 
Bombay 26 . 


Dooumentary Film Studio , 
Czechoslovakia . 


11- 2 -08 


126009 


Do. 


" I will Not Eat " (English ). 198 (1) 

16 mm . - Czechoslovakia , 


Kratky Filme, Czechoslovakia 


U 
37572 


11 - 2 - 02 


TRAA10 


152 (1 ) 


" Steel For Tomorrow " (Eng. 
lieb ), 16 mm . - - Czechoslo 
vakia , 


Takla. 


378578 


87678 


11 - 2 -03 


Consulato Gonoral of the Kratky Filtas , Czechoslovakie . 
Czechoslovak Soolalist 
Republlo. 5. Peder Road , 

Bombay 26 . 
Consulato General of the H . G . Zeing Film , Germany . . 

Federal Republlo of Ger 
many, Dugal House, Road 
No. 3, Bombay 1. 


196684 


" On The Frontlors of Bavarla " 102(1 ) 

(English ), 16 mm . - -Ger . 
meny . 


U 
37674 


11 - 2 .69 


80038 


Do . 


U 
87676 


" A City of Optimiste" (Eng - 128 (1) 
linh), 10 mm. – Germany. 


R . O. F . Produotion 


11 - 2 - 03 


U 


36637 


102 ( 1) 


Ifag Report, Germany . 


87670 


" Partners In The Factory " 

(English ), 16 mm . - Ger 
many . 


* 11-2-63 


11- 2 - 63 


U 


11 / 88088 


" Deutschland Spiogol Christ. 203 ( 1) 
mao Edition " ( Colour ). 


Deutsche Roportage Film A .G .. 
Gormany, 


37677 


11 - 2 - 63 


U 


10.689 


Films Division , Govt . of India 


87878 


" President s Investiture 304(2 ) 
1962” , (English ), 85 mm . 
- India , 


Films Division , Govt . of 
India , 24 - Pedder Road , 
Bombay 26 . 


11 -2 -03 


348 
- - - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1969 


PART III - SEÇ . 4 


= 


= 


= 


= = = = 


= = 


- - 


- 


i - - 


AL LL - LLL 


1 


U 


B / 30221 


37679 


" Black Gulil" (English ), 38 2670410 ) 
mm . - U . N . A . 


Warner Bros . Piotures Ino., Warner Bros . Picturos Ino. 

42 -Queun s Road , Bombay l. 


- With trianglo murk . 


12 - 2 -63 


Endorsement 


No. B /30221. 


Film - " Black Gold " (English ). 
Length applied — 2.893 metres. 
U -Cert, No. 37679 of 12-2 -63 . 


Delete 


Reel I- Shots of two women fighting in the street- 4 . 00 metres . 
Reel 11--- Froza sequence of Julie s song number " Nobody llod ” , shot in which who bondo forward rovoaling bor bust partially — 1 .68 metres . 
Reel III — From the Ight of Rank and Jericho versus hooligans, shots of blows on the abdomon — 3 .90 motres . 

Heel VII — From fight in the saloon , shots of kloking and hitting in the stomach — 4 .55 motres. 
Reduce 

Reel V – To a flash shots of Ann seen in underwear iu her bedroom -4 .67 metros , (Completely deleted ). 
Length of deletions-- 18 . 76 metres . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be - -2676 - 00 metres. 


B /36222 


03 ( 1) 


Trailer of " Black Gold " 
(Englieb ), 55 mm , U . S . A . 


ens hem peterea in 


Wurnor Broa , First National Warnor Bros. Pictures Ino . 

Pictures Ino., 42 -Quoen s U . S . A . 
Road , Bombay 1. 


37580 


se kadangi meie 


With triangle mark . 


12- 2 -03 


Endorsement 

No. B /80222. 
Trailer of “ Black Gold ” ( English ). 
Length applied — 60 metres . 
U - Cert. No. 37680 of 12 -2-63 . 
Delete shots of fighting in saloon – : 08 metres . 
Length of deletions— B -05 metres. 


87081 


Actual length of the trailers after the aforesaid deletions will be - 63 motres . 
B / 36648 Trailer of " Period of Adjust . 82( 1 ) Metro -Goldwyn -Mayer India Metro -Goldwyn -Mayer U .S . A . 
mont" (English ), 35 min . 

Ltd ., Metro Houge , M . a . 
U .S . A . 

Road , Bombay l. 


13 - 2 -63 


B / 38644 


42( 1 ) 


87682 


" Call of The Nation " (Desh 
KiPukar ) (English ), 38 mm . 
- India . 


Indian Dooumentary Produ. Indian Dooumentary Produ . 
cors Association , National oors Association , National - 
House, Apollo Bunder, House , Apollo Bunder , 
Bombay 1. 

Bombay 1 . 


Valid for Englleh & 

Hindi versions. 


13 - 2 -69 


U 
37688 


B / 36650 


55 ( 1 ) 


“ Uplca Handloom House 
(Colour ), 30 mm . - India . 


Santos Film Corporation , Santo : Film Corporation , 

Brabourne Stadium , Voer Brabourne Stadium , Veer 
Nariman Road , Bombay l. Nariman Road , Bombay l . 


18 - 2 -63 


B /38594 


37684 


" The Silont Sentinels " (Colour ), 670 ( 2) 
30 mm . - - India . 


Filmo Division ,Govt. ofIndia , Filme Division ,Govt. of India 
24 - Peddar Road , Bombay 
26 . 


13 - 2 -69 


Valid for Englio , 

Hindi, Tamili , 
Telugu, Bongali, 
Gujarati, Marathh 
Kannada, 
Malayalam , 
Punjabi, Orya , 
Assamese and 
Urdu vordion . . 


B/30631 


D / 38631 


“ Seving -For Dofence", 85 100(1) 


" Saving For Defence" , 35 
mm . - India . 


109 (1 ) 


DO 


D 


97888 


O. 


w 


Do . 


19 - 2 -03 


U 
97686 


B / 30682 


" Indian News Review No. 279 ( 1) 
749 " , 36 mm . - India . 


18 - 2 -88 


U 
87587 


B / 88707 


" British Movioton , Nows No . 174 ( 1 ) 
1758" (English ), 95 mm . 
U . K . 


20th Century For Corp . ( India ) British Movietonows Ltd ., 
Private Ltd ., Metro House, U , K , 
M . G . Road , Bombay 1. 


13- 2.63 


TT 


B / 86879 


37688 


" Maharashtra State News 369 ( 1) 
Magazine No. 128 " 35 mm . 
- India , 


FIMA Officor , Directorate of Films Officer, Directorato of 
Publicity , Govt. ofMaharash - Publioty , Govt. of Maha 
tra , Sachivalaya, Bombay 32 . rashtra . 


- Valid for Hindi on 

Marathi versions. 


13 - 2 -03 


U 


B /36681 


Do. 


Do. 


“ Aata Hoech Wajane " (Mara . 651( 2 ) 
thi), 36 mm . - - Indie . 


37680 


87589 


13 - 2 -63 


PART III - . SH . 4 ] 


349 


THE GAZETTI OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 
S 

: GSAAN : : 


- 


- 


- 


- 


B / 36091 


278 ( 1) 


377500 


" Motrio Measures " , 36 mim . 

- India , 


Filmy Division , Govt. of India , Films Divisiong, Govt. of India 
24 - Poduler Rom , Bombay 20 . 


13 - 2 -63 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu , Bongali, 
Gujaruti, Marathi, 
Kannadı , 
Mulhyulum , 
Punjabi, Orlya , 
Annwese and 
Urdu versionA . 


U 
37891 


B780683 


30 mm , 


" Vaconation " 

India . 


412 ( 2 ) 


Do , 


Lo 


Valid for English & 
Hindi versions, 


- 


13-2.63 

U 
37892 


B / 80590 


" Pepper " (English ), 30 num . 

- India , 


555 (2 ) 


10 . 


13 - 2 -63 


B /88202 


293 ( 1 ) 


ilo 


10 


37893 


" C itizens And Citizona " , 35 
100 . - Judia . 


13 -2 - 83 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu . Bengali , 
Cinjasaii, Marathi, 
Kunnuda, 
Malayalam , 
Punjabi, Orlya , 
AAAAMCO and 
Urdu Forsiona , 


0 , 


Do . 


TT 


B /30598 


" Vigyan Mandire " , 35 min . - 472(2 ) 
India . 


37694 


13 - - 03 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu , Bengali , 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
Kannada , 
Malayalam , 
Punjabi, Orlya 
and ANAM050 
versions, 


Do. 


017 ( 2 ) 


Do . 


37698 


B780892 


" Saati Eentun " , 81 min . 
India , 


18 - 2 - 08 


Valid for Hindi, 
Tamil , Telugu , 
Bengali, Gujarati, 
Marathi, 
Kannada , 
Punjabi , 
Malayalam , Oriya 
and Allaamese 
versions . 


B / 88668 


" Laila Majau " 
m1 . - India , 


(Hindi), 38 


37090 


529 ( 2 ) 


Ad Cino Exhibitory , 12/177 , Prakash Trohan , 12 / 177, 

Adriah Nagar, Worli , Bom - Adrugh Nagar, Worli, Bom . - 
bay 18 . 

bay 18 . 


16 - 2 -09 


U 


/ 88710 


281 ( 1) 


Metro -Goldwyn -Mayer, U .S . A . 


" Metro News Vol: 307 " 36 
min . - 11.N . A . 


Motro ( toldwyn -Mayer Indii 

Ltd ., Metro House, M . G . 
Road , Bombay 1. 


37897 

- 
18 - 2 - 03 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, and Bengali 
versions. 


U 


- 38714 


709 ( 9 ) 


" The Pioneer " , 85 mm . 
Indin , U . K . 


Public Rolutions Ofloor , Oll Anthony Gilkikon , U . K . . . 

India Ltd ., 2 / 113 , Parliament 
Street, Now Delhi, 


37098 Valld for English , 

- - - - - Hindi and A8AA . 
16 - 2 -63 nevne versions, 


37890 


B / 36140 


" To Jtch His Own " (Colour ) 79 ( 1) 
( Cartoon ) (English ), 10 mm . 
- U .N . A . 


Warner Bros. First National Warner Bros . Piotures Inc., 
Plotures Tov., 42 -Queen s U . S . A . 
Road , Bombay 1, 


15 - 2 -03 


U 
87600 


/ 38641 


Du, 


Do, 


" Rear Fort" ( Colom ) 1 ( town) 700 ) 

(English ), 10 mm . — U . N . , 


1K - 2 -63 


U 


37701 


B /86080 


" The Buwic Principles of Jub - 011 (2 ) 
riontion " (English ), 18 tom . 
- UK . 


Eago Standard Eastern , Tao , 
(P . B , No. 181, Bombay 1). 


Technioeland Solontiflo Filmy 
LUU ., U . K . 


16 - 2 -63 


U 
87702 


With trlangle mark . 


1/88040 


47( 1 ) 


U . S . A . 


" Trailer of The Miraclo Wor - 
ker " (English ), 31 mm .-- 
U . S . A . 


20th Contury Fox Corp .( India ) Fred Coe. 

Private Ltd , Motro House, 
Bombny 1, 


10 - 2 - 68 


undor gpment 


No. B /2014) . 
Truiler of " The Mirnole Worker " . 
Length applied — 12 m . 
U ( ort. No. 37702 of 10 -2 -69 . 


Delete 
: The shut showing the horrified face of Indy together with her gorearn – 6 33 m . 

Artual length of the Truilor after aforesaid deletions will be - 47 m . 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- -- - 


- - 


- - 


350 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 

- 


[I ART III - SEO . 4 
- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


____ 


B / 30180 


Trailer of " Torm of Triu " 
(Engligh ), 85 mm , - UT. K . 


03( 1) 


TI 


Warner Bros . First National Roinne Films Produo ., U , K . 

Picturey [no , 52 -Queen s 
Road , Bombay 1. 


37703 


With trianglo mark . 


16 - 2 -63 


Endorsement 

No . 3 /96480 . 
Film - Trailer of " Term of Trial" . 
Length applird --- 77 m . 

U -Cort. Nr., 37703 of 10- 2-03 . 
Delete - - - - - - - - - 

1. Tho shot of boya attacking a girl in tho ruin and cutting a portion of her hair - - 1.07 m . 
2 . The Alrot of Graham making love to Anna in her undorulothes - 4 . 11 m . 
8 . Shirley s views in hor slips with emphasised busts — 8 . 56 m . 
Length of deletion8 — 13 . 73 m . 


Actual length of the Trailer after the aforesaid deletions will be - 63 m . 
B /90603 " The Miraclu Worker " 2810 ( 12 ) 20th Century Fox Corp . (India ) Food Col, U . S . A . 
(English ), 3.5 mm . - U . S . A . 

Privata Ltd ., Metro House , 
M .(H. Road, Bombay 1. 


A 
1800 


19 -2 -03 


B /88721 


1857 


With triangle mark , 


" Two Wools In Another 2921 ( 13 ) Metro - Holdwyn -Mayer (India ) John Houseman , U .8 . A , 
Tuwn " (CoenaAcupe )(Colour ) 

Ltd ., Metro House , M . G . 
(English ), 36 14m . - U . S . A . 

Road , Bombay 1 . 


16 - 2 - 03 


Indorsement 

No. B /86721. 
Film - Two Wrols In Another Town (( inonnng Opc)( Colour ). 
Length applied - - 2979 m . 
A - Cort . No. 1307 of 18 -2 -13 . 


Delete 


Reel No. Description and Length 
IV Prom the scene in proviow -room , shots of a woman salaciously running her fingers over the lege of a man sitting beside her - 1 .80 m . 
yil Shots of Andrus pushing down Veronica on the boaoh and then kissing and carossing her - 7 . 41 m . 

VIII From acones of Kruger s wedding anniversary Party , shots of Barzelli shuking hor bust indooorously whilo dancing -- . 28 m . 
Reduce 
II Considerably the sequence in whioh the herolne (Barzelli) comoves bor dress and io noon only in bikinis and in indooorou : postures; partiou 

larly delete the earlier portion — 13 . 81 m . 
Length retained — 8 . 04 m . 
XI Considerably scenes of revelry in night olub in which Andras gets mixed up with Carlotta and othor womon and behaves in & drunkon 

manner - 18 . 48 m . 
XII To a flash tho shot of a man kløslng and onroasing Carlotta passionatoly .- 4 . 67 m . 
Length retained — 0 .91 m . 
Reel XIII - Considerably shots of Carlotta being beaten up by Aariray and her breaking down , whilo he is driving hor away rooklossly - 962 motra , 
Length retuined - 24 . 98 meters , 
Total— 87 -67 metros , 
Length of de. etion8 — 67. 87 motros. 
Aptual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - 2921 metres . 


A 


}} /80483 Torm of Trial" ( English ), 3038 ( 14 ) Warner Bros . First National Romus Films Produotion U . K . 1858 With trianglo markt 
- U . K . 

Pioturos Ino., 42 Quoon s 
Road , Bombay 1 . 

10 - 2 -03 
Endorsement 

No. B /88483. 
Hilm -- Term of Trial. 
Length applied -- 3 , 115 metrog . 

A -Cort. No , 1358 of 18th February 1969. 
Deleke 
Reel IV – The scono of Shirley being nccosted and entering tho dilapidated house and her belng assauliod and hor hair helng out after she is laid flat 

on her back by four boys . (Merely sho w Shirley walking, bell ringing, the boys running away and tho mastor walking ) RA - 05 metros . 
Rerl VII– The shadowgraph of a boy and girl kleding when Shirloy is lying on her oot , Joan s sentence " He s vory passionate . He like to bilo 

whon the two girls are lying on the cot. - 3 . 71 metros. 
Redude 
Reel II - The love asking scene between Graham and Ann , and doloío his second kiss on her ghost when she le in hor elips - 2 .81 metros, 
Length retained — 27 metres . 
Rrel IX - T20 pentionate loye -making and kissing between Shirley and Mitchell in the corridor in the train and dolote the goono of a fat sailor trying to 

pass through and squeeze thom toyothor . - Rotain the shot of Graham trymy to restrain thom - 5 : 07 potros , 
Length retained 13 . 10 metres 
Length of deletions— 77 . 44 metros . 
Aotual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 9098 metros . 


PART III - SEC. 4 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


301 


ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 


B / 35034 


" Son of Indiz " (Colour ) ( Film 4400 ( 17 ) Mohboob Productions Privalo Mehboob Produotions Private 30874 
Scopo ) ( l[ indi), 30 tohi. — Indin 

Ltd ., Hill Road , Bandra , Ltul ., Hill Road , Bandru , — — 
Bombay ū ), Bombay 60 . 

1 - 11 -02 


With ondor ouont 
THA Certifcato 
Wag ondorsed on 
1212 February , 
1903 . 


Endorsement, 

No. B /93634 
Film " Son of India ." (Hindi) 

U -Vert, No), 30874 of løt Novonilor , 100 . 
Alterations under Rule 34 
Aveleda 
Reel III – Gopal going to fetoh water and the scene at Rui Srbob s residence. Rai Sabel clears misunderstanding existing between him and livet 

(laughtor – 14 . 20 metres . 
Recl 11 J. B . blackmailing Hai Sahob in oonnootion with breaking the romanco botwoon the Hures und Kamin - 45 . 11 inotron . 
Length of Jullilions — 89 .81 metres . 
Aolual length of the rim after the aforcsuid ullerulions will be — 4581. 00 metros . 

ENDORSEMENTS 
1. Hndorsement 

No. B /38070 
Film - Banking For Co - oportiveg . 
U - Cort. No. 80054 of 27th Juno 1002 . 

This certifionto ja valid also for the Hindi, wrathi, Gujarati, Tuwil, Telugu , Bengali, Kunnada , Maluyalam und Oriya versions of the film . Actual 
longth of the film romains unaltered . 

This oortifloato was ondorued on 16th February, 1903. 
2 . Wndorsement 

No . B /86217 
Film — World By Night No. ( Tooluniramu) (luluur). 
A -Cert. No. 1348 of 15th January 1963 . 
Actual length of the Illm after the letrtione specified in the endoricinent dated 16 - 1- 1963 will be 2787 metres in eleurn richt . 

This cortificato was ondorsed on 16th February, 1008 . 
3. Endoracinent 

No . B /88662 
Film - - Valiant Duughters of Gujarat. 
U - Corl. to . 37461 of 7th January 1963 , 
This certificate is valid also lor Hindi and Gujarati version 8 of thy film in colour. Aptual longth of the film romains uraltorod . 
This certificate who ondorsod on 15th February , 1903. 

CORRECTION 
Endorsement 

No. B /30347 
Film - -Good Grooming ( Color). 

U - Cort. No. 37422 of 8th Junuary 1963. 
Correotion 
This languugo of the film given on fiqe of tho cortilioulo nay lo rond as " Englislı onl Benguli instoud of Hindi and Bongnli he wrongly deolurod 

by tho Applivant . 
This cortilluato wag endorsed on 11th February , 1963. 

OALOUTTA 


02 


3/4301 


Iranian Embassy , Now Delhi 


35615 


" Uistorioul Buildings of 181 (1 ) 
Esfubau " ( Colourod ) (English ) 
10 mm , Iran , 


Audio Visual Service of Fino 
Art: Admninistration Govorn 
noint of Ir7. 


11- 2 -63 


1/4305 


101( 1) 


Do . 


Para Film (lo . Tohoran 


. . 


30010 


" Isfahan - City of Art " 

( Colour) (English ), 16 nm . 
Iran , 


11- 2 -08 


U 
35017 


4300 


Do . 


" Tolerai -CapitulCity of Iran " 181 ( 1 ) 
(Coloured ) (English ), 16 mm . 

Iran , 


11 - 2 . 1068 


U 
35618 


4/4307 


Ironian Jimbanny , Now Delbi 


" Stato Visit To Iran of l[er 201( 1) 
Majosty Quoen Elizabeth Il " 
( English ), 10 mm . - Iran . 


Iranian Tino Arts Institute 
(Films Division ) ,Guvernuont 
of Iran . 


11- 2 -03 


U 


74308 


Do 


95619 


" A Prince Is Born " (English ), 101( 1) 

10 mm .-- Iran . 


11 - 2 -03 


1/4800 


32 (1 ) 


Ting 


" The Iranian Now Your" 
(inglish ), 16 mm . - Iran . 


. 35020 


11- 2 -68 


1/ 4310 


" Our Young Prinov , Toharan 32 ( 1 ) 
Spring of 1002" (English ), 
16 mm . - Iran . 


Tho Cinematographin Conti a 
State Secretariat for Hine 
Arts . 


35041 
- - - 

11- 2 - 1063 


U 


1/4314 


85022 


" A Campaign Full of Horne 120( 1 ) 
Power " ( Colourvd) (English ), 
10 nm . - India . 


Candida Filme, 11 /0 , Free 
School St., Valoutta 10 . 


Candids Films, 11/0 , Froo 
School St., Caloutta 10 . 


- 


15 - 2 - 03 


352 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, INUE 22 , 1963 


[ PART III - SEO . 4 


1 


0 /4317 


" Amudori Bhuj Bono " (Bun - 308 ( 1 ) 
gali ), 30 mm . - - India , 


0 /4820 


" Shlou Shahid " 
80 mm . - India , 


( Bongali ), 319 (1) 


M . . Puda pith , 119 - 13 , Girou - S . Sorajuddin 110 - B , Viroular 30023 
lar Carden Roaoh Ronil, Garden Roach Road, Calcutta - 
Valuutta 23 . 23 , 

15 - 2 -13 

U 
Ashutosh Nug , 4 , Babu Ram Ashutosh Nag, 4 , Bubu Ram 35624 
Ghoso Koad , Caloutta 40 . Ghobo Road , Caloutta 40 . - 

16 - 2 -68 

U 
The Film Producers Orlher , The Hilm Producers Orighet, 35625 
Cuttack 8 . 

( luttuok 3 . 
MADRAS 

15 - 2 -63 


0 / 4321 


" Our Delin l rofoot Part 11" 
( English ), 33 mm .- India . 


580 ( 2 ) 


M /2997 . . - Krishnarjuna . Yudhu " (Kar - 4661( 17) 

nada), 88 mm . India . 


Vijaya Enterprisos , 2 & 3 , Vijaya Enterprises , 2 & 
Aroot Road ,Madras 28 . Aroot Road , Madras 28 . 


3 , 

- 


86422 


12 - 2 - 68 


U 


M / 2006 

“ Dharmam Thula , Kaakkum " 4570 . 48 ( 18 ) Dayar 17 mny, 1 , Sadullub N ., Duvar Filmy, Sulullah St., 85423 With trianglo Dark . 
Tamil, (36 mm .) - India . 

Mudrag 17 . Ancras 17. 

16 -2 - 1003 
Endorgomont on Certifouto No. 35423- U dated the 16th Februury , 1963 – 189uod to the tilu Diarium Thalai Kaakkum ( Tainil - 35 nw . B . & W 

Length an in the application -- 4803 . 02 metres. 
Outs 

1. Reol - - Reduce tho one hold -up and highwuy robbory to a suggestion – 3 : 06 motros . 

2 . Reel 5 - Redvoe tho scorso botweon Sadanandun and Millila to suggestion , deloting nll dialogues ofhim is a muarriod mou whogo wife had consentod 
to his ro -marriage - 7 . 32 motros . 

3 . Reel 7 - In tho doctor s oonsulting room , delete Sadanandam introducing Mallika And Manian family and friend. (Sound only ; replacement approv 


4 . Recl 7 – Delete Sadanandam s remark that it was mattor of girl and tho dootor would give good treatment — 9 . 13 motros. 
5 . Reel 8 - Song - Delete Picture of Chandran embracing Sivakamiand lifting her down. ( Replacement appinged 1. 22 and 0 .61) - 0 -81 metres , 
6 . Reel 9 - Delete Sadanandam explaining to the Inspector that Mulljka was his family and frioud . (Yound only ; ruplaoment approved ) 


7 . Reel 11 – Delete the goene of Kamakshi objecting to Sadanondam misbehavlour-- 17 . 37 metron , 
8. Reel 11 -- Song Delete pioture ofChandran and Sivakanu in close-up (6 ) dclete her sentenco A dootor can go with anybody – 11. 89 and 2 . 44) 

- -- 14 : 33 metres . 
9 . Reel 12 – Delete Sadanandam tolling Mallikathat he would showalno by his action , but forth fact that he had a frown-up daughter - 15 . 24 motro 
Total length of outs — 81 . 27 metres . 
Length us in the application --4803 . 02 metres . 
l otal length of cuts - 01 27 metros , 
Length after cuis - 4741 . 75 metros. 
Add approved rcplurcmenla - 1 .83 metres . 
Length ofter replacements. - 4743- 58 metres. 
Voluntary outs — 179 - 10 metros . 
Actual length of the fim vrill be 4570 - 48 metres in 18 roole . 

U 
M /2008 " Somavara Vratha Mahatm 4638 77( 16 ) Aruna Films, No. 140 - A Aruna films No. 140 - A , 35424 
Yam " (Telugu ) 38 mm , 

Loyds Road , Madras 6 . Loyds Road, Madras 6 . 
India . 

10 - 2 -03 


D . L . KOTHARI 

Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors 


Part III - Str . 43 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


353 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

Central Board of Film Censors 

PART I 
Particulars of Films granted or refused certificates by the Central Board of Film L ensors (Regional Office , Bombay ) 

during the week ending 23rd February 1963 
Instructions : - B - Bombay ; C — Calcutta ; M - Madras. U Certified for unrestricted public exhibition . 

A Certified for public exhibition restricted to Adults i.e . 

persons who have completed their 18th year . 


Nature of the 
Vortiti ulo 
granted 


and 


Application 

No , 


Name of the film witli 
languuge and country of 

origin 


Length of 
the film in 
motor und 

No . of 
reals 


Name of the person ( I 

Co .npplying for tho 
certiticato with adrese 


Najno of the person or 
( ho, who has produced 
the film with addreng 


Remarks 


No , anil 
dalo of thio 
cortifiuto 

issued or 
unte o 

whiali 
il van 
If funcil. 


U 
37704 


1 , 36093 


Exploring Liliya (l ulour) 

(English ), 10 mm . -- U . S . A . 


300( 3 ) 


( altex ( Indiu ) l’rivato Ltd ., Rickurd Findio 

T allea House , Ballard Estates , 
Bombay 1 . 


19 - 2 -03 


U 


D / 30547 


37700 


Porjulof Adjustment (Enk - 3089 ( 11 ) 
lislı) 35 mm . - U . S . A . 


Metm Goldwyn Mirger India Metro -Goldwyn -Mayor 
Lund. Metro Houso , 
M . G . Bwad , Bombay 1. 


19 - 2 -63 


U 
377065 


13 /80602 


Men , Ships And Oil (l olour) 320 ( 3 ) 

(English ), 10 mm ), U .NA 


( ultez (India ) lirivali Lul., Joran Jaru Camp 
l allox [ 140 , Billund 
Estate , Bombay 1 . 


10 - - 19 


U 
37707 


1 /36762 


British Murigonie Nowe No. 1981) 
1750 (Colour) ( English ), 30 
nim . - U , K . 


2011) ( entury - I Posp . British Muviotonow . Ltd . 
( India ) Private Ll ., Metro 
Ho140 , M . (1. Road, Bombny 


20- 2 - 03 


B /30732 


Motro News Vol. 306, 36 mm). - 304( 1 ) 

U .S . A . 


Motro -Goldwyn -Mayer 


37708 


Metro Culduzu Miyer In 
Ltd ., Motro Ilonuc, M . G . 
Road , Boubny I. 


Volid for English , 
Ilindi and Bon 
gali versione , 


20 2 -12 


B /36808 


U , S . Information Agency . .. 


37700 


A Conversation with l rovident 145( ) 
Konnody (English ), 10 nm) . 
- U . S . A . 


United States Information 
Neriile , 10 -Queen Road , 
Boniну 1 , 


20 - 2 -03 


U 
37710 


B / 36666 


Dynamic Sales Management 244 (2 ) 
(Culour ), (Engliph ), 16 mm . 
U . S . A . 


National Productivity Council, Wilding Picture Productions 

11 - A , Janputki , Now Delhi. Inc . 


20 - 2 - 63 


U 
37711 


B /3667 


Do . 


183( 1) 


GI O l ilm Unit 


Mon In Danger (English , 16 
mm , -- U . S . A , 


20 - 2 -03 


U 


B / 36689 


vo. 


Harry Foster 


37712 


Caruor of Salesman (English ) 137( 1) 
10 mm . - U . S . A . 


20 - 2 -63 


U 
37713 


B /88765 


Indian News Review No . 780 280 ( 1 ) 

35 nm - Indja , 


Filma Division , Govelmont Films Division , Government 
of India , 24 - Poddar Road , of Judia 24 - Poddar Road , 
Bombay 26 . 

Bombay 26 . 


20 - 2 -63 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil 
Tolugu , Bonguli, 
Gujarati, Marne 
thi, Kannada 
Malayalam , Pun 
jubi, Oriya , As 
namese and Urdu 
VOTNÍUNA , 


U 


Do . 


B / 86746 


Dn . 


37714 


Every Effort Courto - - 86 mm . 43 ( 1 ) 
Indie . 


20 - 2 -03 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu , Bengali, 
Gujarati, Mara 
thi, Kannada 
Malayalam , Pun 
jabi, Oriya 
Assamese end 
Urdu versions, 


384 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[ IAẾT LIf . 4 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


D 


r 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


WS 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 


= 


= 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


B / 3619 


U 
37715 


With triangle Diask . 


word of T Lo Cunqueimar, 2737( 11) 
( Colour ) (( iromanc:opc ) ( 3: 11 
Tixlı ), 35 nm , - l heure dubled 
in U . S . A . 


oth Century Fox C er . A litano l roduction 
( ludin ) Privato Ltd ., Metro 
Hou: ( , M . G . Road , Bunbuy 


20 - 2 -03 


Erulurse177 — 

No . 13 : 3679 
Film - — " Sword of Tho Conqueror." (Cinem necope ) (Colour ) 
Length applied — " 824 motren . 

1 -Cortificato No . 37718 of 20th Februny 1963 , 
Delete 

Heel P , IX , XI - Near viewo of diroot hits of lancen , nd ords and arrow6- 81 . 51 metres . 
Rol 111 - Near- view of soldior with bleeding eyes - 1 . 44 metres . 
Kerl X in the sconoshowing Rurmunda drinking from her father s skull, the chanc -up of the skull— 5 . 04 metrle , 
Rrel X7 - S1018 ofdrumken Holdiers onbracing girl- poribunele ond ofu girl hying Euggestively lifted up hy a soldier-- 10 . 45 pctres . 
Shot of Albiono [ illing river kommuna and kissing her forcilly after utenting the knife from her hand, 1 . 60 inetics , 
Ileance 

Tel 111 – To a flash the scope of tortture of a man hunging upside down and boing flogged - 5 . 00 netres. 
(Length retained - 61 notre ) 
Neel V - Ion nero flash the shot of a dead body of Fallsco with bleeding wounds - 2 .82 metres. 
(Lungth rotuinod - A = -metro.) 
Rcel VI - Shots of Rumunda s child in prison as aku his crying - - 10 : 47 metre . 
( Letigth retained — 10 - 97 motre ). 
Length of delelim6480 . 72 metro . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 2737 metres. 


97716 


With trianglo mark . 


20 -2 -03 


B / 36430 Trailer of Sworl of The 48 ( 1 ) 20th Century - l ox Corp . A Titants Production 
Conqueror " (Cinemaxcope) 

( India ) Private Ltd ., Metin 
( l ulour ) ( English ), 38 mm . 

House, M . G . Road , Bumbay 
France dubbed in U . S . A . l . 
Endorsement 

No. B / 36430 
Trailer of “ Sword of the Couqlturor" (Cincinascope) ( Colour) 
Length appiic - Umetres. 

U - Cort. No. 37710 of 201h Tubruary 14 03. 
Delete 

1 . Shot of a man langing uprido donluud Loing toeged - 1 - 08 metroM . 
2 . Shot of ruoken soldiers un bracing girls and of a soldier lifting a girl up bugucetively - 8 . 40 metrc , 

3 . Shot (of Alboino lying over and forcibly Lining Roppuundu - 8 -42 metros . 
Kedure 

4 . To u flanh tho prolonged kisw betweun Rvebilda und Amalili _ . 28 notice . 
(Length rotuined — -48 motre.) 
Length of deletions - 10 . 14 metres . 
Actual length of the Trailer aflcr the aforeerid deletions will be 40 niotren . 


B /36710 


Family Album 38 mm .-- India 31 ( 1) 


37717 


Bomag Limited, Cu Unitod S . Sukhdev , United Filin Arts, 
Film Arta , 48 - Caswaji Butel 48 - Caswaji L atel Stroet , 
Street , Bombay 1 , 

Bombay 1 . 


20 - 2 -02 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil , 
Telugu , Bengali, 
Kannada , Malya . 
yalan and AHA 
MAD Version 


B / 20699 


Crown of Loveliuoss Colour , 31( 1 ) 
35 71 . Jndin . 


37718 


Bomans Limitel, Stoolrroto Durga Khote Proxlutions, 
House , Diogliaw Włohhix Judi Houro , 1st Floor , – 
Rond , Bombay . 

Bumbay 1. 


20 - 2 - 03 


Vialid for English , 
Hindi, Taini), 
Teluyu , Bengali, 
Kannadh , MAlaya 
lain & Awaamano 
vorsions, 


B / 36694 


87719 


The Export Choico, Colour, 27 ( 1) 
(English ), 35 mm - France , 


Blaze Advertising Privato Tho Universal Egçapoinent 
Ltd ., Contral Bunk Building , Ltd . 
Bornbay. 


20 - 2 - 03 


U 


B /30002 


To Enrioh Mankind , Colour, 213 ( 2 ) 
( English ), 10 mm . -- U . S . A . 


Nutional Productivity Council, Juin Hundy Picture 
11- A , Junpatlı , Now Dolhi. 


37720 


20 -9 -03 

U 
37711 


B /30084 


Tho Londor, 35 mm . - -India, 


31(1) 


3 . Sukhdev , United Film Artis , Voitel Filin Arta , 46 -C .14 &wji 
46 -C49:2wji Piel, Road , Pniel Road, Bombay . 
Bombay 1. 


20 - 2 -03 


Vulld fur Hindi. 

Tainil, Toluga , 
Bengali, Malaya. 
lan , Anuamese & 
Kannada vorsion 


B / 36898 


Dogh Ki Awaaz , (Hindi), 36 228 (1 ) 
m . - Iudiu . 


fontional Education . Infor - National Eduontion andInfor - 377 :): 
mation Filmy Ltil., National mation Films Ltd ., National - - 
House , Apollo Bunder, House , Apollo Bundor , 20 - 2 -03 
Bombay 1. 

Bombay 1. 


/ 90705 


Do Raha (Overseng version), 80( 1 ) 
Colour, (Arlbio ), 36 innl.-- - 
Tulia . 


Ama Privalo Lid ., Canada Ana Private Ltd , Canada 37728 
Building , furnhý Rurit , - Building , Hornly Road , - 
Bombay 1, Bombay 1 . 

21- 2 - 03 


PART III - SEC. 4 ] 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1963 


356 


1 


B /307:50 


My Mission , 35 mm . India . 


77( 1) 


Films Division , (tovt. of [ udin, Film Division , Govt. of India , 

4 - Poddur Rd., Bombay 26 . 24 -Peddar Rd ., Boinbay 26 . 


U 
37721 


21- 9 - 03 


Villiri for Engla 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu , Benguuli, 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
Kumara , Mulaya . 
lalu , Punjabi, 
Oriya , Asgamoso & 
Url : versions, 


B /364.5.1 Trailor of " Only For Lovo " , 81(1 ) 20th Century - for Corp . (Inclin ) Janquoy Roitfell Promotions 377PA With Triangle miri. . 
Cinomayoupo , (English ), 3.1 

Privato Ltd ., Moro House , 
mm . - Trance , M .(4. Road, Bombay 1. 

1- 9 -03 
Enuorsement 

No. B /38853 
Trailer of — " Only For Love (Vinemascopo ) 
Length applich .-88 m . 

U -Cert. No. 37725 of 21st February , 1903. 
Delete 
( 1) Shot of Sophie orabraniny Ahin nflor tho g .18 oxplosion ; (3 ) from Alain s ligula merogol to Sophiio and from 19 English Aub -title the 

underlined words — " Your eyes, mouth . . . . . . . .and all thien 104 " , - 0 . 26 m . 
Antul benuth of the Truiler after the aforisuid deletions will br .- 81 notros. 


U 


B / 36707 


37720 


The Portrait of A Cront 721( 1 ) 
Euterprise, Colour , (English ), 
16 mm . - Italy . 


PO.colouin lafuriation , Noor . Docunonto Films 
VINU), New Delhi. 


22 - 2 - 08 

U 
37727 


B / 80768 


Do 


The Glant of Ravenna, Colour, 454( ) 


Do . 


Do. 


D 


o. 


37727 


(English ), 16 min . - Italy . 


22 -2 -68 


ນ 


B /39928 Spotlight On Vietnnin , (Eny- 111( 1 ) Un lod Stalos Information U . S . Information Agoncy . . . 37728 With triunglo mark . 
lish ), 16 mm . - U . S . A . 

Service , 10 -Quoon s Road , 
Bombay 1. 

23 - -03 
Indorsement 

No. B /82028 
Film - " Spotlight On Vietnam " (English ), 18 mm . 
Length applied - - 113 m . 

U -Cort. No . 37728 of 23r«l Tobruary 1983 . 
Delete 
1. The words " . . . .whose rulors would impozo their will upon the lopublio to the South " 18 spoken with reforonoo to the Poople s Ropubllo 

of (North ) Viotnom . - 0 . 69 m . 
2. The words Vietnamoro in hnadreds of thousands have fled from tho north , loaving all thoy owned hohind.- -1.42 m . 
Length of deletions - 2 - 0 metres. 
Aufteal length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 111 metres . 


U 


B / 38747 


37729 


Your Sohool Safety Patrol, 185 ( 1) 
Colour , (Engllah ), 10 mm . 
U . S . A . 


United States Infornution Calvin Produotion Ino. 
Sorvice , 16 -Quoon s Road , 
Bombay ) . 


28 - 2 - 63 


B 38700 


Do. 


U 
37730 


Do . 


Frooway Driving I. Different, 159 ( 1) 
Colour , (English ), 10 min . -- 
U . S . A . 


23-2 -63 


U 
B / 38639 Triler of “ Whatever Happonel 55 ( 1 ) Warner Bros . First National Tho Aggociates & Aldrich Co . 37731 With triangle mark , 
To Baby Jane, (English ), 

Pioturos Inc., 4 -Quoon s Ino. 
85 mm .- U . S . A . Road , Bombay I. 

29- 2 - 03 
Indorsement 

No . B / 88539 
Trailer of " Whulever Tiappened in Baby Jane" 
Length applied — 63 m . 

U - Cort. No . 37731 of 23rd Febrizury , 1989. 
Delete 
1. All shots of piotures of a (loll with broken head wherever they 000110 , retaining only thoso shots on whiloh the nuh -tillo ; have been superimposed 

- 0 .64 m . 
2 . Shot of Jano kioklug Blancho.- ) . 38 . 
Length of relations - . 8 m . 
Actual length of the Trailer after the aforesaid deletions will be — A8 m . 


A 


B / 30310 Advise And Condent, mom l- 3,78A (10 ) Columbia Films of Inilia Otto Promingor . 

13 :51 With endorsement. 
BCopo ), ( English ), 35 min . 

Lid ., Motro House , M .G . 
U . S . A . Roal, Bombay 1. 

21 - 2- 63 
Indornement 

No . B /80340 
Film - “ Advise And Consent" (Cinemascopo ), (Prnavision ) 

1- Cert. No . 1369 of 21st February , 1963 . 
rations under Rule 34 — 
Deleted - 
Repl 111 - The scene vllowing tho Inli in Amhnagarlor nt th . Wu4lington social party, iluletiny 114 dialogue portaining to the Indian Govern 

inont s atnnd in the mattor of controversial nomination . - . 88 metitu , 
4o/nal length of the film after the aforraait alterations will be — 8 ,703 m . 


356 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1903 


[ Part III - Sco. 4 


- - 


. 


. . - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


1, 35850 Only For Lovn ( Omnomn900po), 2, 75(0 ) 2012 Century Fox Corp. Jaoque Ruitfeld Productions 1380 French with Eng 
35 tuin . - France , ( India ) Privato Ltd ., Motro 

lish subtitlot . 
Souf , .G . Road, Bombay 1. 

21- 9 - 03 With triangle 

mark 
Andoraemix 

No . B /35850 
Film " Only For Love" (Fronch with English sub -titl03 ) (Oinomisopa ) 
Lungth rpplict- 2 , 975 motros . 

.1 - Ort, No. 1300 of 21st Tobrunry , 1963. 
Delete 

Reel 1 -- Rourk of Phillippe s Hasintant addressed to Sophie " Here are your pants " . — 1. 93 m . 
Roel 111 – To the sceno botwoon Alain and Sophlo after the gra explosion in the kitchen , - 

(i) Shot of Sophio in scanties rushing towards Alian - 7 . 31 m . 
( ii ) shut of Alian Ourassing hor hare thigh ; (iii ) Shot of Sophio pulling her shirt over her head whlle embracing and ( iv ) Sophia s ropark whilo 

embracing Allan ; " You Aro naked " — A . 14 m . 
Reel IV -- The English anb -title along with the romark of Phillppa s Aagistant - ldrossed to Sophio " You have got to get rid of that 8 . 0 . B . 

2 . 33 m . 
Reel 1 - lu to train sound , shot of Sophie taking off lor crenuing gown ,of hor bare tilghis whilo climbing to the upper berth and of her exposed bust 

when who in bending over hor borth . – 14 . 73 ml. 
Alion s remark to Sophio - - " Let s nerk " - 1 . 04 m . 
Reel VII - In tho hutol- room noone , noar views of Sophio exposed thiųhis bofilm Alian kisnou her in bed .--4 -67 m . 
Reel IX - From Philippo «llulogue culdregnod to Sophie , " Ho how only one idon -to hop into bed with you " roferring to Alain " , 2 - 98 m . 

In the moone belwoun Alalı holding the shut-yun and Sophio all shots of Sophie undressing horself beginning with lia French dialogue and tho 

inglish sub -titlo " Undress upto the top -anglo shut of their hearts whilo embracing. 
Length of deletions- 90 - 55 1 . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesail deletions will be — 2 , 275 mm . 
Alteration under Rule 31 

U 
B /38705 Do Raba , Ovorheas Vorsion , 30 ( 1 ) Amg Private Ltd ., Canada Ama Privato Ltd ., Canaria 37723 This oortificate was 
Colour, ( Arabio ), 35 mm . Building, Homby Rand , Building , Hornby Koad , - 

- endorsed on 2181 
Tndiu . 

Bombay l . Bozbay 1. 

21- 2 -43 Fobruary 1963 . 
Endorsement , 

No . B /90765 
Filin - " D . Raha " 

U - Cort. No. 37723 of 21st Fobruary , 1903 . 
Alterations under Rule 3.1. 

This oortificato is also valid for exhibition of ench of the tw print# of the film in Arablo with different paok shota . Actual length of each of the 

two prints will be 86 m . and 82 - 30 m . regpentively . 
This certifoale is also valid for tho English version of tho film with a differont pack shot.- - 10 - 21 m . in length . The actual length of this version will 
be - -82 . 30 m 

MADRAS 


U 


M -2999 


35125 


Manthiri Kumaran , ( Tamil), 4517 . 00 Vittul Produotione, 03 - 0 . Koil Vittal Produotione, 03 -G , Koul 
35 mm . India . ( 17 ) Nt ., Puranawakkam , Madras Street , Purasawakkam , - 

Madras 7 . 


18 - 2 -68 


U 


M - 9000 Savathi Koduku ( Telugu ) , 4420 . 00 Naveena Chitra , 13 - Saravana Naveena Chlta , 13 . Saravana 38426 With trianglo mark , 
36 m - India , ( 18 ) Mudaliar St.,Madiran 17, Mudaliar troet ,Madras 17 . - 

19 - 2 -03 
indoramenton Oertificate No. 35420 - 1 , dated 19th February , 1903 , issued to the film Savathi Koduku ( Telugu ) — 38 mm ., 1 . & W . 

Length as in the application — 4 ,498 . 64 metron , 
Cute 
1. Reel 3 --- Yong 2 - Delete shots vf Soshu and Janaki embraoing oanh other in mid -olose -ups and mid -olose -ups. 3. 17 

(Approvod replacemont - 7 . 17 motros ), 
2 . Reel 4 - Delete Chalmohan saying ho lo liko Swami Vivekananda - 0 .01, 
3 . Reel Delete shots of the fat polioonan chasing Chalmohan in vain . - 3 .06 Motros , 
4 . Reel 7 - - Delete the panning shot of the drink bottlog. - 1 . 83 metros . 
8 . Reel 8 - Delete Chalmohan s doncription " Tomporary son -in -law - - . 77 . 
6 . Reel 10 _ Song 5 - Dulote the entiro pioture of Vanuja in tight pante, 106 . 68 (Re-taken piutuslaation approvod , - 106 - 68 m ). 
7 . Reel 12 – Song . Vilele (a ) the ontire text of the 8011g , and (6 ) from the piaturisation , delete shots of (0) Vanoja Jerking her burt and swaying 

hor hips ; (ii) Indioations in the picture that Vanaja s attendant is trying to tako money , Vanaja kissing the currency notes and Awooning, 

(Roplacement of tort and pioturo approved - - 100 . 08 ). 
8 . Reel 13 - Delete Seshu s referenoo to Gundaraya ELM Court Gunila - 001 , 
Total length of outs - 297 - 98 metres, 
Length as in the application - 4 ,438 motros . 
Total length of cuts- - 227 . 98 metres , 
Length after outf - 4 , 210 . 50 metron , 
Add approved replacements --- 218 . 83 metres. 
Actual length of the Nlm will be — 4 ,420 . 00 metres in 18 Reels , 

U 
M - 2081 Arivali ( Tamil), 38 mm . - India 4608 . 03 A . T . K . Produntiong , 75 % , A . T . K . Productions, 78 /8 , 36427 

( 16 ) Veeraporumal Koj] Street , Vocraperumal Koll Street , 
Madras 4 . Madras 4 , 

19 - 2 - 83 


M - 3009 


Extensor Many Tailod Opera . 
tion (Kokaohromo), (Silont 
English title ) , 16 mm . - India . 


142. 08 

(1 ) 


The Medical Officer -in - Charge The Medical Officer - in - Charge 
Leprosy Centro , Polamba Lopropy Centre , Polomba . - 
kkam , Madras . 

kkam , Madran, 


215 

- 
10 - 2 -63 


Classified A Pro 
dominantly Edu 
cational. 


M - 3009 


Do , 


Do , 


210 


Do. 


Tibialis Pogtorior Transplant 32 . 91 ( 1 ) 
(Kodochrono ), (Silunt, Eng 
lish title ), 16 mm . - India . 


10 - 2 - 03 


TT 


M - 3003 


95428 


Trallor of "Manthiri Kumaran " 
(Tamil ), 350m . - India . 


147. 21 

( 1) 


Salon Shanmura Films , 
Maplyaman Koil Streot , 
Gugai, Salom 6 . 


Salem Shanmuga Films, 
Marlyamman Koill Street , - 
Gugai, Salem 6 . 


20- 2 - 03 


PART III - SE0. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


387 


1 


M - 3008 


Tra 

Alcalathu , 
payiru " ( Tamil ), 98 mm . 
India . 


30 - 48 Master Piotures , 14 - Begant Mastor Plotures, 14 - Bebant 
(1 ) Road , Madras 14 . 

Road , Madras 14 . 


36429 


20-2-63 


20 - 2 -63 


M - 3002 Saku Magalu , (Kannada ), 36 4 ,686 .03 Padmini Plotures , 15 - Bala - Padmini Pictures , 18 -Bala . 36430 
11 . - India . ( 17 ) krishox Road , Madras 4 . krishna Ruad , Madras 4 . 

21- 2 -68 

U 
M - 8003 Nithya Kanyuka, (Malayalam ) 4 ,472- 92 Saravanabava and Unity Saravanahava and Unity 36481 With trianglo merk . 
35 mm . - India . 

( 17 ) Pioutres , 20 - B , Greenway : Piotures , 20 - B , Groonway : -- - 
Road , Mudras 28 . Road , Madras 28 . 

21- 2 -63 
Andoraement on Certificate No. 35431- U , dated 21st February, 1963, issued to the film Nithyakanyaka (Malayalam ), 35 mm - B . & W . 

Length ay in the uupliration 4 , 672 - 00 Metres. 
Cute 

1. Reel I - Delete ghoto of Lata in close -up and mid -olose -up, camora foo11890d on her bust. — 6 - 09 Metres, 
2 . Reel 2 - Delete shot of Lata in ologu -up when she is stitching. - 4 . 50 Metros . 
3 . Reel 6 – Delete tho sido - anglo shot of Nalini with her bust in olund - up . - 2 . 43 Motres , 
4 . Reel Y - Reduce to a baro Buggestion the attornpt of Janí to tasault Nalini. - 1 . 52 Metros. 
5 . Reel 8 – Song 3 - Delete the photo where Lata expuses hor buet (a ) reflouted in the mirror; (8 ) hending over the woll; (0 ) Kitting on the stairs 

2 : 19 Motro . ( Approvod roplacemont - 2 . 13 motres), 
6 . Reel 10 – Delete Lata exposlag her bust where Appu Menon deolines milk ,--- 16 - 46 Metros. 
7 . Reel 14 - When Ravi digoloses his love for Lata to Vusu Kurup , delete all dialog1109 auggasting Kurup promislog Late to Ravi. – 18 . 34 Metros . 
9 . Reel 15 % - Brilure t ) A minimum the dialogue betwoon Ravl, ond Vagu Kurup , deleting all indireot reforences to Vasu 

18 and man baving murrlod Lata , andi Vagu prompting Ravi to go to Lata whenover it is possiblo 20 . 71 Metree . 
9 . Reel 18 – Reduce the dialogues between Ravi and Lata when she gives payagam , deleting all proposals by Ravi for a lifo of pleasure with Lata 

- - 18 . 78 Metres . 
10 . Reel 17 - Delete all muggostion (2 ) in Vagu s letter whioh is road ; (b) Suku s dialogue, that Ravi and Lota should got marrlod and llyo av man 

And wife. - 12 - 22 Metros. 
Total length of cuts - 101. 21 Metres. 
Length as in the application 4 ,672 . 00 Metres . 
Total length of outs — 101- 21 Motren , 
Length after outy - 4 ,470 . 79 Metros . 
Add approved replacements - 2 - 13 Metree . 
Adual Length of the film will be 4 ,472 . 92 metros in 17 Reale. 


803 


M -8001 Grahasti, ( Hindi), 35 mm . - 4 ,397 . 15 Gomini Arto Private Ltd . , Gemini Arto Prlvato Ltd ., 98432 
India . 

( 17) 23 .Edward Elliots Road , 23- Edward Ellots Road , - 
Madras 4 , Madras 4 . 

23 - 2 -63 
Alterations under Rule 34 
M - 2964 / 34 ) Hamurabi (Hindi), 35 mm . -- 284 . 68 Prasad Productions ( P ) Ltd . , Prasad Productions ( P ) Ltd . , Certificate No. 35408 - U , dated 
India . ( 3 ) Addi- Madras 17 . 

Madras 17. 

8 - 1 -63 endorsed on 18 - 2 - 68 . 
tions & 
268 .47( 2 ) 

Voluntary 

deletiona , 
Endorsement No. 3 under Rule 34 on certificate No. 36408 - U , dated 8th Jamiary , 1963 , issued to the film " Hamrahi " ( Hindi ), 36 mm . — B , do W .- -- 

Length as per endorsement No. 2 of 23rd January , 1963, - 4, 271. 77 Metres . 
Voluntary deletions -- 258 .47 metres . 
Length after voluntary deletiong — 4 , 013 . 90 motros . 
Length proposed as additions under Rule 34 — 264 . 56 Metres . 

Length after the above allerations — 4 ,277 . 86 Metrea . 
Cut 

Reel 17 – Reduce to a baro ouggestion the drinking soono of Hanuman . – 19 . 20 metros , 
The actual length of the film after the voluntary deletions and approved additions will be - 4 , 268. 66 motres ia 17 Reels . 


D . L . KOTHARI 

Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors 


388 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1883 


[ PART III - SEC: 4 


PART 1 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

Central Board of Film Censors 
Particulars of Filme granted or refused certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors (Regional Office , Bombay ) 

during the week ending and March 1963 
Instructions : - B - Bombay ; C - Calcutta ; M - Madras. U Certified for unrestricted public exhibition . 

A Certified for public exhibition restricted to Adults i.e . 

persons who have completed their 18th year . 


tion No. 


Namo of the film with 
language and country of 

origin . 


Length of 
the film in 

foot and 
No. of 

rools, 


Name of the person or 
company applying for the 
Certificato with address. 


Name of the pornon or 
company who bat produced 

the Alm with addroje . 


Nature of the 

cortifionto 
granted and 

No. and 
date of 
cortificato 
Jaguod or 
date on 

which 
certificato 
was refused , 


Romarko . 


B /86740 


Calvin Produotion Ino . 


37732 


Emergencies In The Making 103( 1) 
(Colour ) (English ) ( 16 mm . ) 
(1 . 8 .A .). 


United States, Information 
Sorvice, 16 - Quven s Road , 
Bombay l . 


20 - 2 -08 


B / 36748 


168 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


California Highway Patrol 


37733 


A Day In The Life Of 
Caltfornia Highway Patrol 
man (Colour) ( Englob ) (18 
mm ) - ( U .S . A .) 


Highway Patrol 


- 97738 


28 - 2 -83 


B /86768 


37734 


Trailer of " Chandrashokhar 81( 1) 
Azad (Hindi) (36 mm ). 
( India ). 


Kwatra Films, 206 Famous Kwatra Filma, 206 , Famous 
Cine Bldg., Mahalaxmi, Cino Bldg ., Mahalaxmi, — 
Bombay ii. 

Bombay 11 . 


27 - 2 - 08 


B /88797 


Indian New . Roylew No. 199 (2 ) 
781 (80 mm .) - (India ). 


Films Division , Govt. of Filmy Division , Govt. of 
India , 24 - Podder Road , India , 24 - Poddar Rond, 
Bombay 28 . 

Bombay 26 . 


37738 
- 
27 - 2 - 63 


Valid for Eng 
lish , Hindi, Tamil , 

Telugu , Bengali , 
Gujarati, Marathi 
Kanndada , Ma 
layalam , Punjabi , 
Oriya , Aegamens 
& Urdu versiopo . 


B / 38798 


87788 


Folk Dancee Of Saurashtra 862( 2 ) 
(Colour ) (30 mm .) - (India ). 


27- 2- 83 

U 
37737 


B /86706 


Front 145 ( 1) 


Lettor From The 
(88 mm - (India ). 


27 - 2 - 08 

U 
87788 


B / 88796 


Paube and Think (35 mm .) 303( 1) 
( India ). 


27 - 2 - 63 

U 
87739 


B /88794 


A proud Tradition (35 mm ). 90 ( 1 ) 
( India ). 


27- 2 -88 

U 
37740 


B /36782 


( 16 mm .) , 


122( 1) 


200 (English ) 

(Netherlande ). 


Consulate Genoral of the Bort Haanstra . 
Netherlands, 208, Bazargato , 
Street, Bombay 1. 


27 - 2 -63 


B / 80745 


Multiflm 


87741 


Uitzicht OpDo Hemely ( Pro . 122( 1 ) 
mise of Heaven ) ( Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Nothorlade). 


- No Dialogue of 

Commentary , 


27 - 7 -08 

U 
37742 


B / 86744 


Vleiefilm , Amsterdam , 


For Better Living - Dutch 229( 1 ) 
Contractors At Work (Eng. 
ish ) ( 165mm . )- (Netherlando .) 


27- 2 - 08 


B / 80748 


Do. 


Polygoon - Profilti 
tion , 


Prodao 


The Third Toodey In Sep . 122 ( 1 ) 
tember, (Colour ) (English ), 
( 16 mm . (Netherlands). 


87748 


27 - 2 -03 

U 
37744 


B /80760 


18 ( 1) 


Roop Ki Bahar (Colour) 
(Hindi) (38 mm . )-- (India ). 


BR , Film ., 4 , Chinoy Colony , Chopra Filma, Kardar Stu . 

Juhu Road , Bombay 64 . dios, Parel, Bombay 12 . 


27 - 2 -63 

U 
97748 


B /86761 


18 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Saundarya Ka Prabhat 
(Colour) (Hindi) (85 mm ). - 
( India ). 


27 - 2 . 08 

U 
37746 


B /88768 


Film Journal No. 2, (English ) 294(1) 
(35 mm ).- -( India ). 


Ama Private Ltd ., Canada Ama Private Ltd ., Canada 
Bldg., Homby Road , Bldg., Hornby Road , 
Bombay 1. 

Bombey 1. 


27 - 2 -68 


PART III- SBC . 4 ] 


THE GAMATTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22, 1983 


90 


B /36622 


28 ( 1 ) 


Trailer of Corridors of Blood 
(English ) (86 mm ). U . K .) 


John Croydon , 


U 
37747 


Metro -Goldwyn -Mayer India 

Ltd . , Motro House , M . G . 
Road , Bombay 1. 


27 - 2 - 08 


B / 36807 


21041 ) 


87748 


British Movletone Now 
No . 1700 ( Partly in Colour ) 
(English ) ( 38 mm .) -- ( U . K .) 


20th Contury Fox Corp. British Moviotonowo Ltd . 
( India ) Prvate Ltd ., Metro 
Houbo , M . G . Rosd , Bombay 1 . 


28 - 2 - 13 


B / 96802 


37749 


Metro Now Vol; 300 (86 801( 1) 
mm )- ( U . S . A .) 


Metro Goldwyn Mayer Indis Metro Goldwyn Mayer 

Ltd ., Metro House , M .G . 
Rd., Bombay 1, 


28 - 2 -69 


Vald for Englleh , 
Hindi & Boogali 
verbiona. 


B /36679 Gøy Purres ( Colour) ( English ) 2320 ( 1) Warner Bros . First National UPA Pictures Ino. 

37760 
(38 mm )- ( U .S . A .) 

Pictures Ino ., 42 - Queen s 
Bombey 1 . 

28 - 2 -03 

U 
B /36516 Gebre Dasg (Hindi) ( 35 mm ) 4389( 10 ) O . P . Ralhan , 217 - C , Famous 0 . P . Rinan , 217 -0 , Famous 37751 
- ( India ). 

Cino Bldg ., Mahalaxmi, Cine Bldg ., Mahalaxmi, - - With ondorse 
Bombay ii , Bombay 11 , 

28 - 2 - 63 mont. 
Endorsemet 

No . B / 36516 
Film - Gebra Daag ( Hindi). 

U -Cort. No. 37751 of 28 -2 -1963. 
Alterations under Rule 34 . 
Deleted 

Reel 111. - The shot of theman in the audience elbowing the girl sitting next to him -1 . 22 m (Replaced with approved shots 1 - 22 m ). 
Reel 111-- The shot of Sunder and Sundarl holding each other s hand suggestively along with his romark “ Suno to !" 5 m . 
Reel VIII. - In the folk -danoo nequenoe . shots ofarohing by the principal dancer , Aldo Close -up of the emphasised huet of Shobha at the end _ 6 . 18 

(Roplaced with appgrovod shots -5 . 18 m , 
Reel x — Shots of childron crying and telling Shankar: " Mama hamari jaan mat lo " -- 2 .74 m . 
Reduced 

Reel XII.- Shots of crying of Ugha and the childron when she is lying seriosuly ill - 3 -66 m . 
Length of deletions 16 . 30 m . 
Length of approved replacements 6 . 40 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be 4379 m . 


B / 88798 


Trailer of Bandini (Hindi) 98 ( 1) 
(36 mm ) - ( India ). 


Bimal Roy Productions, Mohan Bimal Roy Prodoutlone, Mohan 

Studios , Andhori, Bombay . Studios, Andher , Bombay . – 


37702 


28 - 2 -69 


B / 86659 


Trailor of Talwar Ki Jhankar 81 ( 1 ) 
(Colour ) (Hindi) ( 35mm ) 

( U . S . S . R . ) 


Sovoxport Alm , 103- A Lowor Mosfilm Studios, 
Colaba Road, Bombay 5 . 


37763 


2 - 3 -68 


B /86828 


Angels In Uniform (38 mm ) 364 (2) 
( India ). 


Films Division , Govt. of Films Division , Govt. of 
India , 24 - Pedder Road , India , 24 - Peddar Road , - 
Bombay 26 . 

Bombay 20 . 


37704 

- 
2 - 3 -69 


Valid for Eng. 

lish , Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu , Bengali , 
Gujarati, Marathi 
Kannada, Mala 
yalam , Punjabi, 
Oriya , Авывшево 
& Urdu versions. 


B /36702 


Solenco 


37765 


Stellar Brothors ( Zvezdnio 1834 (7 ) 
Bratja ) (Colour) ( English ) 
( 86 mm )- (U .S . S . R .) 


Consulate General of the Moncow Popular 
USSR in Bombay, 42 No - Film Studio , 
peangon Road , Bombay 0 . 


2 - 3 -69 


U 


B /36770 


Tazgi Ki Rhimjhimwala (38 15 (1) 
mm ) -- (India ). 


Indian National Pictures 
Ltd ., National Houso , 
Apollo Bunder, Bombay 1. 


Indian National Ploturen 
Ltd ., National House , 
Apollo Bunder , Bombay 1. 


37766 

- 
2 - 3 -63 

U 
37767 


Valid for Hindi & 

Bengali versions . 


B / 88777 


Du . 


Dular Bhari Duniya (Colour ) 23 ( 1 ) 

(Hindi) (38 mm ).-- ( India ). 


Do . 


2 - 3 -63 

U 
97788 


B / 30703 


Princely Possession ( Colour) 30 (1 ) 
( English ) ( 98 mm ).- (India ). 


Hunner Films, Nanabhay Hunnar Filma, Nanabhay 
Mansion , Sir P . M . Road , Mansion, Sir P . M . Road , 
Bombay 1, 

Bombay I. 


2 - 3 -03 


B /86736 


Safe As You Think (English ) 206 (8 ) 

( 10 mm ).- - ( U . S . A .) 


Bound Masters Inc. 


37769 


National Education & In - 
formation Filme Ltd ., Na 
tionalHouse, Apollo Bunder , 
Bombay 1. 


2 - 3 - 03 


B /30789 


Experiment (English ) 
mm .) - ( 0 .8 . A .) 


(18 


127 (2) 


Do . 


37700 


2 - 3 -63 

U 
87761 


B /36736 


Easier Way ( English ) 
mm ) — ( U .S . A .) 


(18 


190(2 ) 


Do. 


2 - 3 - 09 


REGD , No. P -310 

800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 22 , 1963 


[ PABT III — SEQ. 4 


1 


2 


3 


ALTERATIONS UNDER RUL # 34 


U 
B /98518 Gehra Daag (Hindi) 35mm ) — 4399 (1 ) 

0 . P . Ralhan , 217 , 0 Famous O . P . Ralben , 217 - C , Famous 37751 
- ( [odia ), Cine Bldg., Mahalaxmi, Cino Bldg., Mahalaxmi, 

With endurgemont . 
Bombay li. Bombay 11 . 

28 - 2 -63 This portifoste 

WAA ondored on 
28th February 

1903 . 
Endorsement 

No. B / 30516 
Film - Gehra Dang (Hindi) . " 

U - Cert. No. 37761 of 28 - 2 - 1963. 
Alterations under Rule 34 , 
Deleted 
Reel 1. – Fight uçone 4 . 68 m . 

Court scene: dialogue of Judgo eto 13 - 72 m . 
Reel 111 . Shot showing exterior of the shop 2 . 48 m 

Entry of Mother of Shobha in hostel 14 . 32m . 
Reel VI. - Soeng between Shankar and his younger sister regarding knitting a sweater oto , 16 . 24 m , 
Reel VII.- Tonga shot: from whero Shankar gets into the tongs upto Ratoamula s house oxtorior 5 - 40 m , 
Reel IX - Talk between mother of Shobha and her sister 15 - 85 m . 

Buone at the platform (roduced ) 4 .87 19 . 
Scene of the groom o party coming to see Asha the birde-to -be and the 80090 betwoen Shankar and Shobha in the exterior 30 . 48 m , 

Asba bitting in bridal dress and her friends tonsing her 5 . 49 m . 
Reel XIII - - Tun Iun s arrival at Ugha s house with the letter 2 .44 in . 
Length of deletions 111 . 01 . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterationswill be 4264 m . In 16 reels . 

MADRAS 
M -8004 Dil Ek Mundir (Hindi) (35 4205 60 Ohithralaya , 89 , North Bong Chithralaya , 39 , North 85433 
mm .) - ( India ). ( 10 ). Road , Madras 17 . 

Boag Road, Madras 17 . 

28 - 2 -03 


T 


M - 3008 

Vanambadi ( Tamil) (85 mm ), 4480 . 00 Kannadhasan Productions, Kannadhasan Produotions, 85434 With trianglo 
- -( India ). ( 18 ). No. 39 , Ueman Road , No. 39, Usman Road , – 

- mark . 
Madras 17 . Madras 17. 

27 - 2 - 63 
Endorsemont on corticate No. 36434 U dated 27th February , 1963 inned to the Alm VANAMBADI ( Tamil ) 85 mm B . & W . 
Length as in the application 4497 . 00 metres. 
Outs 
1. Red 1 -- In the Zamindar s houso, delete (a ) the suggestion that Sundecamurthy was proouring Moena; (6 ) shots and dialogues of the Zamindara . 

attempted aggault on Moona, loving only the suggestion at the ond . 19 . 00 
2 . Reel 10 – Deleto Gopali s sentence that bo oan do " puratohi" but his wife should not, and she should commit suicide by falling in a rlver or tank 

- 0 . 00 . 
3 . Reel 12 - (a ) Song 7 – Delete all the shots of the danoor in oloso -up and mid - olose - up ; (6 ) in the following spone , dolote Nityanandam s sentence that 

the Zamindarwas in love with a lowgrade girl but he hud thousands of beautiful women ;(o ) delete the sentence of the Zaminder that his arma 

bad embriood several glrle. (Hoplacomont 91 metros for (a )) . - 48 .00 . 
4 . Reel 17 - In Sumathi s deposition, delete (a ) she did not know on what uharyo shy wig arrested and learnt only whon she came to the court; (b ); 

her husband threatened her that he would spread the rumour that she was a prostitute. (Approved replacement 15 m , for (6 ), 20 . 00 . 
Total length of outo - 88 . 00 
Length as in the application - 4497 . 00 Metrcs. 
Total length of cuts — 88 . 00 Metres. 
Length after cuts — 4401 . 00 Metres 
ADD approved replacements -- 48 . 000) Motros , 
Actual length of the film will be- 4455 . 00 metres in 18 reels . 


M -9007 


85485 


Neenganda Ninaivu ( Tamil ) 
(35 mm .) ( India ). 


4411 . 00 Padma Filme, 20 , Muna Padma Films, 20 , Muga 
( 15 ) Salt Streot, Madras 17. Sait Street, Madras 17 . 


27 - 2 -63 


ALTERATION UNDER RULÆ 34 . 


M - 8003 /34 / Nithya Kanyaka (Malayalam ) 48 - 63 Saravanabava & Unity Saravanabave & Unity 36481 
504 , (38 am ).--- ( India ). Ploturos , 20 - B , Greenway : Piotures , 20 - B , Greenways - 

This oortificato 
Road , Madras 28 . Road , Madras 28 . 

27 -2 -63 

was endorsed on 
27th February , 

1963 . 
Endorsement No . 2 under Rule 34 on Cortifloute No. 36431 U dated 21st February, 1983 - issued to the film Nithya Kanyaka (Malayalam ) 88 mm . 

B . & W . 
Addition of 48 . 03 motrou in Roel No. 3 1. approved , 
Tho revloed length of the Alm will bo — 4619 . 00 metres ln 17 reels. 


D . L . KOTHARI 

Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors 


